===== RECORD 1 =====
Company: Agilent Technologies
Ticker: A
Sector: Health Care
Industry: Life Sciences Tools & Services
Transcript Count: 44
Filtered Turn Count: 694
Matched Keywords: bottleneck, capacity, capacity constraint, capacity constraints, delay, delays, depend on, depends on, distribution, facilities, facility, factories, factory, freight, inventory, logistics, manufacturing, manufacturing capacity, network, operational, operations, plant, plants, procurement, produced, producing, production, raw material, raw materials, rely on, shipment, shipments, shipping, supplier, suppliers, supply chain

Sullivan: Thanks, Alicia, and hello, everyone. Today Agilent reported first quarter orders of $1.68 billion, down 2% from last year and flat on a core basis. Q1 revenues of $1.68 billion were unchanged from a year ago, up 1% on a core basis. While revenues came in at the low end of guidance, adjusted earnings of $0.67 per share were at the high end of the guidance, up 8% from a year ago. Operating margin was 17.6%. We saw a mixed business environment with continued steady growth in life science and applied markets. This was offset by continued weakness in our electronic measurement markets, particularly in aerospace and defense. Despite some ongoing economic headwinds, we continue to benefit from our commitment to manage expenses and reduce manufacturing costs. We also continue to make excellent progress in preparing for the split of the company. On January 7, we announced Keysight Technologies as the name of the new EM company. We expect the separation to be completed by early November. As I indicated last quarter, Agilent will increasingly differentiate our electronic measurement and LDA businesses in preparation for the company’s separation. Today, I will share performance highlights for the life science diagnostics and applied markets. These businesses will be the focus of the new Agilent, as the company continues under my leadership. Following my remarks, Ron Nersesian will discuss our electronic measurement performance, which will be the focus of the new spinoff company under his leadership. Finally, Didier Hirsch will provide a more detailed discussion of Agilent’s overall financial results as well as our guidance for fiscal second quarter and the full year. Turning to LDA, our first quarter performance continued to show solid revenue growth across instruments, services, and consumables. Q1 revenues of $1 billion increased 5% year over year, reflecting strength across most end markets and a healthy Q4 backlog. Q1 orders of $979 million increased 2% over last year. The slowing in the order growth is driven by weaker demand in academic and government markets. Operating margins were up 210 basis points to 19.2%, consistent with our margin expansion goals for the businesses. We continue to focus on attractive end markets, our leading product portfolio, and significant operational leverage. Our end market performance in LDA was particularly strong in pharmaceutical, biotech, clinical, food, and forensics. Pharma revenue grew 8% year over year, with strength in Europe and Japan offsetting slow demand in the U.S. Food revenues were up 14% over last year, as globalization of the industry continued to drive demand for food safety. Forensics grew 26%, driven by the need to identify and characterize new designer drugs entering the global market. And was up 3%, led by Europe and large refinery projects in the Middle East. Conversely, academic and government markets declined 10% year over year. Research spending remains constrained, impacted by slow budget releases, particularly in the U.S. and China. Diagnostics and clinical revenues were up 10%. The was slow, due to a very slow start for the quarter, but the clinical business was robust, driven by CGH arrays and target enrichment. On a regional basis, LDA performance was mixed. Europe continued to see the strongest regional performance, driven by strength in pharma and services. Asia, ex-Japan, also showed strong growth, while Japan was down primarily due to weak currency. Americas was up slightly, constrained by delayed budget releases in Canada and the United States. Within LDA, our life science and diagnostic group, or LDG, had Q1 revenues of $592 million, up 5% from a year ago. Orders of $554 million were flat year over year, reflecting softer instrument demand in the Americas and China. Operating margin was 17%. We signed a new companion diagnostics agreement with Merck . Development projects will include treatments for lung, breast, and gastric cancer. And LDG released the third version of our intelligent system emulation technology for our 1290 Infinity LC systems. The new allows for emulation of competitors’ systems. Our chemical analysis business continues to show strength across both its instruments and reoccurring revenue portfolios. Q1 revenue grew 6% to $417 million, driven by chemical and energy, as well as non-government food safety markets. Q1 orders grew 4% to $412 million. Operating margin was 23%. In the quarter, chemical analysis launched two spectroscopy systems. The new ICP-MS and MP-AES systems introduced more streamlined operational features and a user-friendly interface. This will enable a wider range of applications and improve accessibility to a broader range of lab personnel. LDA’s outlook for fiscal FY2014 remains positive, as the world economy continues to improve and budgets are settled. While the comparisons will get more difficult starting in Q2, we expect growth trends to continue. Our gross margin proven initiatives continue to progress well, and we see additional opportunities to grow share with new product releases in the pipeline. Our priorities will continue to be centered on improving the customer experience, driving organic growth, increasing our margins, and improving our return on invested capital. LDA revenues for the second fiscal quarter of FY14 are expected to be between $995 million to $1.02 billion, or 4.1% core growth at the midpoint. We expect operating margins at the midpoint of 18.1%. For the full year, we project a revenue range for LDA of $4.03 billion to $4.13 billion. At the midpoint, LDA’s operating margin is expected to be 19.5%. Didier will provide additional details in his commentary. Thank you for being on the call. Now I’ll turn it over to

Nersesian: Thank you, Bill, and hello, everyone. For the first quarter, the electronic measurement group reported orders of $699 million, down 7% year over year. EMG revenues also declined 7% in the quarter to $671 million. While orders were consistent with expectations, the impact of Lunar New Year on our ability to recognize revenue late in the quarter was greater than anticipated. This resulted in revenues that were below our guidance. The book to bill ratio was 1.04 for the quarter. Despite lower than expected revenues, solid gross margin management and disciplined expense control yielded an operating margin of 15.2%. Taking a closer look at our end market performance, aerospace and defense revenue declined 27% year over year against a tough compare. The first quarter of FY13 was the peak of our aerospace and defense business, prior to U.S. sequestration budget reductions. Consistent with the positive signals that I noted last quarter, industrial computers and semiconductor revenue increased 4% year over year, driven by investments in next-generation semiconductor process technologies. Communications revenue declined 5% year over year due to softness in wireless R&D and broadband spending. Wireless manufacturing was up 1% year over year. Long term growth drivers remain intact. Wireless standards continue to evolve, driving investment in emerging network technologies. As a result of two key product introductions, EMG is well-positioned to capitalize on these macro trends. As I’ve said before, we are committed to winning in the wireless ecosystem. In November, we introduced a new modular wireless manufacturing test platform called EXM. It is getting strong reviews for both cellular and wireless land tests, and just two weeks ago, we introduced a major new wireless R&D platform called UXM. Both the manufacturing and R&D platforms have multiformat architectures to support 4G standards and can be upgraded as standards evolve. Another key part of our product strategy is to build a modular product offering that leverages our technology leadership in feature-rich instrumentation. Our modular business continues to gain momentum, with orders for PXI and AXIe offerings again showing strong double-digit growth in Q1. Shifting from Q1 results, we remain focused on our FY14 priorities which are to launch ourselves as an independent company, focus solely on electronic measurement customers, strengthen our position in wireless communications and modular solutions, and to continue to generate strong profit margins for our shareholders. As Bill commented about the split, I am pleased to report that we continue to make excellent progress and remain on track to separate EMG from Agilent. On January 7, we announced the name of our new company as Keysight Technologies. As we plan to begin operating under the Keysight Technologies name as a subsidiary of Agilent, effective August 1, the spinoff is expected to occur in November. Despite the extensive work involved with the separation, we remain intensely focused on managing our business without interruption and delivering the quality, innovation, and service that our customers deserve and expect. Turning to our outlook for Q2, Keysight revenues are expected to be in the range of $705 million and $745 million. We expect operating margins at the midpoint to be 18.2%. With expected growth of approximately 8% in the second half of FY14, revenues are now expected to be in the range of $2.84 billion to $3.0 billion, or 2% core growth at the midpoint for FY14. We expect operating margins at the midpoint to be 18.7%. I will now turn it over to Didier to provide more details on Agilent’s financial results.

Hirsch: Thank you, Ron, and hello, everyone. To recap the quarter, our revenue, adjusted for $5 million of unfavorable currency, was $6 million, or 0.4%, below the midpoint of our guidance, but our EPS was $0.01 over. Once again, we were able to deliver on our EPS commitment thanks to our disciplined management of expenses, in line with our operating model. Please note that that Q1 core revenue growth by segment and by geography is reported in the slide deck, posted on our website. This quarter, currency subtracted about 1.5 percentage points from our year over year revenue growth and acquisitions had no material impact. A final note on Q1, we bought back $100 million of stock in Q1, and therefore completed the $1 billion stock repurchase program authorized by the board in May of 2013. I’ll now turn to the guidance for our second quarter. We expect Q2 revenues of $1.72 billion to $1.74 billion and EPS of $0.71 to $0.73. At the midpoint, revenue will grow 1% on a core basis. Our 18.2% projected operating margin at the midpoint will be 60 basis points higher than in Q1, and 110 basis points lower than Q2 of last year. Remember that we initiated a drastic cut in discretionary expenses early February of last year that resulted in over $30 million of expense savings in Q2 last year, so we face a tough compare. While we are maintaining our spending discipline, we’re also investing in key growth initiatives. Now to the revised guidance for fiscal year 2014. We’re now expecting fiscal year ’14 revenues to range from $6.9 billion to $7.1 billion and at the midpoint this translates into 3.6% core revenue growth. As stated by Ron, EMG has revised down its midpoint revenue guidance by $55 million, to a year over year core growth of 2%. Midpoint operating profit guidance for EMG has been reduced by $35 million and operating margin guidance at the midpoint is 18.7%. At the same time, LDA has increased its midpoint revenue guidance by $5 million to a year over year core growth of 5%. Midpoint operating profit guidance is increased by $4 million, leading to an operating margin midpoint of 19.5%. Agilent EPS is now projected to range from $2.96 to $3.16 and the midpoint of $3.06 is down $0.12 from the November guidance, which represents a reduction of $0.13 coming from EMG offset by an increase of $0.01 from LDA. With that, I’ll turn it over to

Nersesian: With regards to the decremental, we’ve looked at that closely, and we are anticipating growth of 8% in the second half. And accordingly, we are continuing to invest to bring up new platforms that we think will drive that growth in the second half.

Morgan: And just to follow up, Ron, in your comments you talked about the latest from the Chinese, that looked bigger. Can you maybe just talk to us about whether things have picked up post the quarter and do you expect those delays to come through in the first half?

Sullivan: Our orders were right on expectation at $699 million. What happened was we built about $15 million in pipeline due to Lunar New Year. So this is basically products that we’ve received orders for, we shipped, but we’re not able to recognize revenue because of the way Lunar New Year fell. We anticipated and forecasted that to a certain extent, but it was greater than what we thought. We plan to flush that backlog, that $15 million worth of backlog in Q2, as well as have a sequential increase of $39 million to bring our revenue up $54 million in

Group: I guess I’m still struggling a little bit in some of the deltas for the quarter, particularly as we look at aerospace and defense. We sort of came into the year, as you said, flat, and now we’re down 5, but we just had a down 27, when I think last quarter we were down at about 11. So it was a pretty big deterioration. I’m just trying to get a sense for how something like that is so difficult to forecast. Or did it come in closer to where your forecast is and then the comps are going to drive it, etc.? I’m just not sure I totally understand. I know the Lunar New Year and some of the other factors, but I’m just trying to see what transpired maybe from a pacing perspective to where this was so difficult to sort out.

Sullivan: Our forecast was to exceed the midrange of the guidance all the way up towards the end of the quarter. And right near the middle of January, the middle to second half of January, we received a very substantial number of requests to delay delivery until after Chinese New Year. That happened in China. We also saw some of that in other areas. In aerospace/defense, the budget was signed in December, but at first what was happening, the end users didn’t know how much money they were going to get, because it wasn’t passed out to them. We actually saw nice acceleration in aerospace/defense right at the end of the quarter, but obviously that did not translate into revenue. And don’t forget that Q1 ’13 was the largest quarter that we had in over eight quarters, where in Q4 of ’12, people were placing their last orders before sequestration and then we shipped that, about $195 million, in Q1 of ’13. So we had a very high compare on that standpoint. So aerospace/defense, basically it was a very slow start to spending the money that picked up at the end of the quarter, and then in China, we saw some pushouts, and two orders alone accounted for $11 million worth of the delta.

Group: On the guide, the two things that are sort of perplexing to me, or I would say three, one, it seems like some of the issues we had were temporal and there are some assumptions of improvement, and yet sort of the guide, it doesn’t feel as if it reflects all of that. It seems as if you sort of took it down, at least on the revenue side, by more than the delta. So I’m a little bit confused there. And then on the dropdown, again, to Tycho’s point, it seems like the decrementals are pretty substantial, just relative to the revenue change. Was there any thought process to maybe do more on the cost side? I know it’s always tough, but we’re sort of looking at an earnings picture here that’s similar to where we were four years ago. So it’s been a pretty frustrating period, I know. Just trying to sense the temporal versus structural nature of some of this, because the guidance implies some of it’s temporal and some of it’s not. So I’m trying to sort out how you thought through that.

Securities: And I guess Ron, I think you mentioned that your orders were actually in line with expectations. I’m just trying to square those two comments in my mind.

Nersesian: Yes, orders were fine, and that means that our Q2 guidance we could have met if we didn’t have the $15 million delays in the actual revenue recognition or customer acceptance. Longer term, for the second half, we just think that the aerospace/defense market, given its hole in Q1, and given where it’s coming from, is going to be a little bit slower. So as Bill had mentioned, we have a real hockey stick, from roughly 7% decline in Q1, and we’re forecasting an 8% increase in growth in the second half, so we are expecting a significant upturn. And we’ve seen things like Europe. Europe has posted growth for seven months in a row. That feels very good. The semiconductor market overall feels very good. But there are other mix things that would cause us not to count on more than 8% growth in the second half.

Lynch: So just sort of looking at some of your more government exposed spending, correct me if I’m wrong, but I believe that your environmental forensics, core was down like 7% in Q3 ’13, it was flat Q4, up 7%. You know, is that environmental that’s rebounding there? Or if it is environmental, is it outside of the U.S. that’s doing that? I’m just curious, that also does have some government exposure to it.

Sullivan: I’ll make a couple of comments on the LDA side, and then turn it over to Ron on the Keysight side. Again, our non-GAAP in East Asia business grew 8%. Obviously China/Korea was very, very strong for us in the quarter. India continues to struggle. I think in the Americas, Brazil has its challenges moving forward. And so there are issues out there that we have to address, but quite frankly China just dominates the position for LDA. So how China goes, that’s how our emerging markets will go.

Nersesian: As far as emerging markets, we sell in aerospace/defense to some of the emerging markets, in particular Russia, a little bit to India, and some to China. And we saw those markets were soft. As a matter of fact, if you add them up, like some other competitors have announced previously, our orders were off 16% in Q1 in the emerging markets. And again, that’s an overlay with aerospace/defense in certain areas. So that’s the environment that we’re seeing there, which tends to correlate with the guidance that we have going forward. The things that make us excited is when we look at the second half, Europe continues to be strong, from the standpoint that it’s grown seven months in a row. And we had two major product platforms that we’ll start shipping in the second half. One is the wireless manufacturing platform, which is a modular based platform that’s getting excellent reviews, and the latest is the new one that we just announced a couple of weeks ago, which is a new wireless R&D platform. And just to give you an idea, this platform is the latest and greatest. It’s up there, and customers have been giving us reviews saying it’s the best platform that exists on the market. It handles LTE advanced and category six data rates up to 300 megabits. It does carrier aggregations, all the latest things. And it has integrated fading, which is typically something that someone would have to buy a product and hook it up with their wireless product in order to make the solution happen. So when we take a look at the strength of the products, the feedback that we’ve had in these areas, how Europe has turned around, and also how things are starting to pick up in some other areas, that gives us the confidence for the second half.

Nicolaus: Ron, one clarification. You sized your PSI business at roughly $100 million. I’m curious if that’s a trailing 12-month basis, or is that from annualizing current quarterly results?

Nersesian: We see growth in communications for us. We have forecasted a 2% growth for the year. The market’s probably flat. There are two things that are going on there. We’re obviously seeing the unit volume increases from 1.8 billion phones or the 1 billion smartphones that are being produced today. But you also do see some price erosion that goes on as we’ve seen more consolidation in the marketplace, and you’ve seen a couple of the smartphone manufacturers actually put a little bit more pressure on the market. The good thing about this market is these standards continue to evolve. They are very highly complex technical challenges, and accordingly, we seem to offset that with our business in R&D or by having leading edge technology. But looking at all that, we still see that 2% growth when you factor in the unit growth and the pricing situation.

Nicolaus: And last one, I guess for Bill, there’s some components and subsystem suppliers in your academic and government food chain that are seeing an uptick in demand, especially in North America, given the Ryan Murray budget deal. And although you reported this area as being a soft area for you in the quarter, I’m curious if you’ve seen any impact at all from the budget deal.

Sullivan: I’m not sure that I know. No, there’s nothing for us. Again, we’ve been a late entry into that market since our program that we made in triple quad and , and obviously in our genomics area. And so I’m not sure that our own issues are somewhat unique to what our investment strategy is and exactly who those customers are. So we’re not of knowledge that any particular impact good or bad, versus the that you had asked about.

Rodriguez: Thank you, operator, and just wanted to say thank you, everybody for joining us on the call today. If you have any questions, please give us a call in IR. And I’d like to wish you a good day.

Sullivan: Thanks, Alicia, and hello everyone. Today, Agilent reported second quarter revenues and EPS in line with commitments, with solid growth in orders. Revenues of $1.73 billion were unchanged from a year ago. Q2 orders of $1.81 billion were up 7% over last year. Adjusted earnings of $0.72 per share were at the midpoint of our guidance. Operating margin was 18.2%. Keysight revenues came in at the high end of expectations. LDA revenues were slightly below the low end of our guidance. Both businesses built backlog as orders accelerated late in the quarter. Book-to-bill for Agilent was 1.05 positioning us well as we move into Q3. Our work to split the company continues to proceed smoothly. By the beginning of August, we expect Keysight to operate independently as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent. We continue to expect the separation to be completed by early November. Today, I will share performance highlights for the life science, diagnostics and applied markets that will become the new Agilent. Following my remarks, Ron will discuss electronic measurement markets that will become Keysight. Finally, Didier will provide a more detailed discussion of Agilent’s overall financial results, as well as our guidance for fiscal Q3 and fiscal year. Turning to LDA, second quarter revenue of $988 million grew 2% year-over-year on both a reported and core basis. We saw good growth across pharma, clinical and diagnostics, energy and food businesses tempered by the results in academic and government and environmental markets. Orders accelerated at the end of the quarter as we built backlog. Book-to-bill for LDA was 1.04, with orders of $1.03 billion, up 4% or 5% on a core basis over last year. Operating margins, adjusted to revenue, were in line with guidance. Turning now to performance by end market, in life sciences, we saw strength in pharma/biotech, up 4% led by demand from midsized and specialized pharma customers. Diagnostics and clinical revenues were up 7% driven by record companion diagnostics growth and strong demand for CGH arrays and target enrichment solutions. Academic and government remained soft, down 6% year-over-year as government spending delays in the U.S. and China pressured results. In the applied markets Food Testing was up 10% with globalization of the food supply and brand protection continuing to drive strong demand. Energy grew 2% led by the U.S. and refinery projects in the Middle East conversely environmental and forensics were down 5% impacted by government funding. On a regional basis LDA performance was mixed. Double digit growth in Europe was broad based across markets. In the Americas revenues were down 2% on delays in U.S. government spending and softness in Latin America. Asia-Pacific was down 3% affected by slower government funding and lengthened approval cycles in China. We saw improvement in China towards the end of the quarter. Within LDA our life science and diagnostic group had Q2 revenue of $577 million, up 1% from a year ago as recurring revenues offset softness in instrumentation. Orders of $598 million were up 3% year-over-year, operating margin was 13% for the quarter. In early May LDG recently announced the latest version of chromatography data systems CDS software called OpenLAB CDS. New features include flexible data capture, improved automation and faster data analysis. We also introduced a range of new LC products during this quarter’s HPLC 2014 in New Orleans. Announcements include a new next generation UHP-LC multi-sampler which sets a new benchmark in throughput, speed and carryover. We also introduced an updated two dimensional LC system for higher resolution applications. And we are launching a series of new LC/MS and GC/MS products at ASMS next month. These solutions are differentiated by higher performance and lower cost of ownership making them ideally suited for the applications in our core markets. The chemical analysis group had Q2 revenues of $411 million, up 3% and led by strong demand for GC/MS and ICP-MS and services. Orders of $432 million grew 6% year-over-year. Operating margin was 22% for the quarter. The ultra high performance of 7200 GC/Q-TOF continues to exceed expectations with Europe leading all regions for the adaption of high-resolution, accurate GC/MS. CAG recently signed a major contract with a leading environmental company in Beijing. Agilent will supply GC/MS technology for online air monitoring systems, related to ozone and other air pollution – airborne pollutants. Looking forward, LDA’s outlook remains positive, supported by our backlog build, a robust pipeline of new products and expectations for increased flows in government spending. We remain committed to creating shareholder value by increasing our organic growth rate, delivering complete workflow solutions for our customers and growing earnings faster than revenues. Moving forward, our priorities are to continue our late-Q2 order momentum into Q3, launch a series of new products and continue to drive our manufacturing cost reduction programs. LDA revenues for the fiscal third quarter of FY ‘14 are expected to be between $1 billion and $1.02 billion, or nearly 5% core growth at the midpoint. We expect operating margins at the midpoint of 18.5%. For the full year, we now expect LDA revenues to range from $4.02 billion to $4.12 billion with operating margins at the midpoint of 19.3%. Didier will provide additional details in his commentary. Thank you for being on the call. Now I will turn it over to

Nersesian: Thank you, Bill and hello everyone. I have three key headlines for you regarding Keysight’s performance in Q2. First, Keysight came in at the top end of its revenue and operating profit margin guidance. Second, Keysight orders returned to growth in Q2. And third, Keysight is on track with its plans to separate from Agilent. Now, moving to the specifics, revenue of $743 million declined 2% or 1% on a core basis, while orders of $782 million were up 11% year-over-year. This resulted in a book to bill ratio of 1.05. Keysight continued to not only effectively manage gross margins and spending, but also had a favorable mix profile this quarter. Keysight generated operating profit of $148 million and an operating margin of 20% for the quarter. Looking to our end market performance, aerospace and defense revenues declined 6% year-over-year. With U.S. budget approvals in place, direct government demand has improved, while prime contractor business in the U.S. remains soft. International aerospace and defense demand was mixed but steady. Industrial computers and semiconductors revenues increased 3% year-over-year, investments in next generation semiconductor process technologies continued in the second quarter, while computer markets remains soft. Communications revenue declined 6% year-over-year. We continue to see strength in 4G base station infrastructure demand, while handset device manufacturing remains moderate. On a regional basis, we saw very good growth in Asia excluding Japan, which grew over 20% with strength across most market segments. The Americas region was down double-digits year-over-year versus the strong compare. Decline – Japan declined 12% or down 4% on a core basis, which excludes the impact of currency. Europe was essentially flat year-over-year. As I discussed during our Analyst Day in March, Keysight is transforming its product portfolio with the goal of returning to market growth rates. This quarter, we began shipping both UXM wireless test set for R&D and the EXM wireless test set for manufacturing. The EXM wireless test set won 2013 Product of the Year award from the Electronic Products China. In April, Keysight expanded its performance network analyzer series with a low price model targeted at low cost RF components used in handsets and consumer products. Keysight also introduced two high performance portable oscilloscopes deploying next generation technology. One set a new standard for signal integrity and the other set a new standard for price performance. We expect Keysight to begin operating as a subsidiary of Agilent on August 1, and to complete the spin-off in early November. As part of our journey, we are announcing today that we expect Keysight common stock to trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol KEYS. In addition, at the end of this quarter we will implement an operational cut over of our IT systems. This transition requires tight coordination of our shipment and delivery plans. We are working with customers on the cut over which could cause some revenue to ship between the quarters. As Bill had said, it takes a lot of work to create two great companies from one. Along with all of the excellent internal work, we continue to focus on our customers and all of their measurement solutions needs. Turning to the outlook for Q3, we expect Keysight to return to revenue growth with revenues in the range of $720 million to $760 million. We project core growth at the midpoint to be 5% and operating margins at the midpoint to be 18.4%. For the full year, we expect revenues in the range of $2.86 billion to $3 billion, which represents 2% core growth at the midpoint. Operating margins for the full year are expected to be 18.9% at the midpoint. I’ll now turn it over to Didier to provide the details of Agilent’s overall financial results.

Hirsch: Thank you, Ron, and hello everyone. To recap the quarter, our revenue of $1,731 million, operating margin of 18.2% and earnings per share of $0.72 were all at the midpoint of our guidance. Orders exceeded our expectations, but the quarter end orders queue was also higher than usual. By business, most of the operating profit variance versus the midpoint of our guidance was due to volume and mix. Please note that Q2 core revenue growth by segment and by geography is reported on the slide deck posted on our website. This quarter, currency subtracted about 0.9 percentage points from our year-over-year revenue growth, and acquisitions had no material impact. Finally, we bought back $50 million of stock in Q2 and generated $272 million in free cash flow, slightly higher than last year. I will now turn to the guidance for our third quarter. We expect Q3 revenues of $1.74 billion to $1.76 billion and EPS of $0.72 to $0.74. At midpoint, revenue will grow 5% on a core basis. Our 18.5% projected operating margin at midpoint will be 30 basis points higher than Q2 fiscal year ‘14 and 20 basis points higher than Q3 of last year. Now, remember that we initiated a drastic cut in discretionary expenses early February of last year that resulted in significant expense reductions in the ensuing months. So, we face a tough compare. While we are maintaining our spending discipline, we are also investing in key growth initiatives. Now, to the guidance for fiscal year 2014, we are confirming the guidance we provided last quarter for both revenue and EPS. And as a reminder, we expect fiscal year ‘14 revenues to range from $6.9 billion to $7.1 billion and fiscal year ‘14 EPS to range from $2.96 to $3.16.

Macquarie: Hey, good afternoon. Thanks for taking the questions. So maybe for both Bill and Ron, can you maybe talk a little bit more about the kind of the pacing in the quarter, I think you made some comments that orders picked up towards the end of the quarter, in particular in China that some of the delay you start to see materialize. I don’t know if that was more just an LDA comment or if that was also a Keysight comment? And then can you maybe talk a little bit about some of the other emerging markets and whether you are seeing any impact in countries like Russia or Eastern Europe given the environment over there?

Sullivan: Yes, I will just make a couple of comments, Jon, regarding LDA and then turn it over to Ron, because the real start of the quarter in my mind is the fantastic order performance of Keysight will maintain their operational excellence. As Didier alluded to, the orders in LDA came in late in the quarter, which is atypical given that half the business is in consumables and parts that it tends to have a more uniform order pattern than you typically see in Keysight. So, we had a back end bias, that obviously affect our revenue. Our revenue was below our own internal expectations and external guidance moving forward. The good news is the orders were there. And as we guided going forward, I think we are in solid position moving into Q3, but we really did have a surge of orders at the end that was out of typical sequence moving forward. And I will rather turn it over to Ron and talk about Keysight. And Jon, if you have any other questions, I can have Mike and Fred talk specifically in terms of what they saw in their respective businesses. Ron?

Morgan: Hi, thanks for taking the question. EMG came in at the high end of guidance. Can you talk to maybe where you’re most surprised to the upside? And then looking ahead you did have a competitor that’s talking about in handset testing another $300 million or so coming out of that market, you maybe just talk us whether you still think flat growth to that market is the right assumption?

Sullivan: Sure. The semiconductor market or the semiconductor test equipment market was very hot and we have very high margins in that business and accordingly that helped us and that’s why we had such outstanding incremental above the midpoint of the guidance over 80%, but that’s not something that we expect to repeat. We had been seeing a lot of price pressure in the handset wireless manufacturing segment, that is why our strategy continues to be to move more and more to R&D, but that pressure that is there on the pricing continues to accelerate. So if you take a mix of high let’s just call it a lot of semiconductor shipments and very little or less handset manufacturing shipments you get the very, very strong incrementals. As we go to next quarter we expect to have a much more normal balance as we move from

Morgan: And your view on just kind of the overall handset testing market I mean do you think that, that market remains flat or or do you see it consolidating in fact?

Sullivan: I think there is enough – there is significant price pressure as that market has become crowded and manufactures continue to look for simpler ways to test their products. It’s all about cost per test. The market is very competitive and it’s one of the lower margin areas or one of the lower margin businesses that are there. We are seeing competitors will be acting more desperate ways on the pricing side and we are doing the right thing for the shareholder and making sure we are going to return in everything that we invest in and where we put our effort.

Morgan: And then for LDA it sounds like environmental front (excludes) kind of the delta relative to the expectation, can you maybe just talk to it, it sounds like you are expecting a recovery in that business for the back half of the calendar year, is that driving the potential upside. And then you had previously called out some delays I think in pathology did those come through this quarter?

Nersesian: I will jump right in and my perspective here. So the environmental and forensic business was down in Q2. The story here remains the weakness in government spending particularly in the more developed countries and economies. When I look to the second half, we are expecting to see improvement in the area as some of the government budgets are released let’s say in the U.S. So we are expecting some uptick in the second half in those areas, both at the federal and state level. But I also think the bigger driver is China as the overall global food market and the growth in the chemical energy space, our major customers are now talking about and in investing in capacity in the U.S. because of the lower feedstocks making their overall operations much more profitable. So clearly there is an element of recovery building around the environmental forensics market, but I also expect strong growth in other two larger markets.

Morgan: And then Bill, can you just comment on that, did you have some policy orders that came through from the prior quarter?

We remain committed to creating shareholder value through: increasing our organic growth rate by leveraging Agilent's strength in the analytical lab into the fast-growing genomics and diagnostic markets; continuing to differentiate through best-in-class tools, workflow solutions and customer experience; and finally, expanding operating margins and return on invested capital consistent with our long-term operating model. Turning to guidance, LDA revenues for the fiscal fourth quarter of 2014 are expected to be between $1.07 billion to $1.09 billion or 6.2% core growth at the midpoint. We expect operating margins at the midpoint of 21.1%. For the full year, we expect LDA revenue in a range from $4.07 billion to $4.09 billion, with operating margins at the midpoint of 19%. Didier will provide additional details in his remarks. Thank you for being on the call. I will now turn it over to Ron to talk about

Nersesian: Thank you, Bill, and hello, everyone. I'm pleased to report that Keysight had a very good quarter and we continue to focus on returning to market growth rates while meeting operating margin expectations. Turning to our performance, I will start by highlighting 3 key headlines from Keysight's third quarter. First, Q3 revenues came in at the top end of our guidance range and operating margins were above expectations. Second, our overall outlook and forecast for the second half remains unchanged despite potential disruption from geopolitical, macroeconomic and company-separation risks. And third as Bill mentioned, we began operating as Keysight Technologies on August 1 and remain on track to be fully separate from Agilent in November. Now let's move to the specifics. Keysight revenues of $757 million increased 8% year-over-year while orders of $722 million were up 7%, resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of 0.95. Keysight continues to deliver solid profit margins, generating operating profit of $149 million for the quarter, which corresponds to an operating margin of 20%. Last quarter, we highlighted the operational separation of Keysight that occurred on August 1. This was a massive step that had the potential to impact the timing of customer shipments. In fact, some customers requested early deliveries to ensure no delays during our transition, and this moved some revenue from Q4 into Q3. As we have consistently noted throughout the year, we expected our Aerospace and Defense and Communications markets to grow in the second half. These markets were the drivers of Keysight's Q3 growth, but strength in these markets were offset in the Industrial and Computer markets. Aerospace and Defense revenue grew 13% this quarter with strengths in both government and prime contractor business as well as regional strength in the Americas and Asia. Communications revenue grew 16% in Q3. Wireless basestation and component manufacturing were strong. However, handset manufacturing was weak as customer buying power and increased competition accelerated price erosion in that business. Industrial Computers and Semiconductor revenue was flat year-over-year. Continued strength in semiconductor end markets was offset by the softer computer business. On a regional basis, revenues grew year-over-year in all regions, with the exception of Japan. Europe grew 16% versus a soft compare last year; Asia Pacific excluding Japan, improved 11%, with positive growth across nearly all segments; the Americas grew 8%; while Japan declined 13% due to declines in government aerospace and defense spending. Overall, Keysight continues to invest in the transformation of our product portfolio with a focus on modular, software and certain wireless solutions. Aligned with this focus, in Q3, Keysight was awarded the Global Frost & Sullivan Award for Growth Excellence Leadership in the PXI instrumentation market. We also announced a strategic partnership to collaborate in early 5G research with China Mobile, the world's largest mobile network operator, and we announced participation in the Korea 5G Forum. Keysight introduced new products in the quarter, including our modular Bit Error Rate Tester, which provides a new level of scalability and flexibility for the fast-paced, high-speed digital markets. In addition, in July, we began volume shipments of our PXI vector signal analyzer. It is the world's fastest and most accurate microwave vector signal analyzer that significantly reduces test times across a wide range of applications and markets. As you know, Keysight began operating as a subsidiary of Agilent on August 1 and we expect to complete the spinoff in early November. Our focus throughout this journey is to make this significant transition as seamless as possible for our customers. Our successful results to date are due to the hard work of our employees, who are implementing a separation plan that includes working closely with thousands of customers to coordinate our shipments and delivery plans in this transition period. I am very pleased with their achievement so far. Turning to the outlook for the remainder of the year, we are facing several headwinds in a handful of areas, most notably Russia. Our sales to Russia have represented 3% of Keysight's total revenue. The volatile political environment, as well as new export restrictions on certain products, may halt growth in one of our fastest-growing regions. Despite the geopolitical, macroeconomic and company-separation risks, we are reiterating our second half and annual guidance. We expect the FY '14 revenues to be in the range of $2.91 billion to $2.95 billion which represents 2% core growth at the midpoint. We have tightened the range but the midpoint is the same as we have communicated last quarter. Similarly, our expectation for full year operating margin remains unchanged at 18.9% at the midpoint. This implies Q4 revenues are expected to be in the range of $740 million to $780 million with operating margins at the midpoint of 20.5%. I will now turn it over to Didier to provide the details of

Hirsch: Thank you, Ron, and hello, everyone. To recap the quarter, orders grew 9% year-over-year, revenues grew 7%, and our revenue of $1.766 billion operating margin of 19.2% and EPS of $0.78 were all higher than the high end of our guidance. Please note that Q3 core revenue growth by segment and by geography is reported in the slide deck posted on our website. This quarter, currency added about 0.6 percentage points to our year-over-year revenue growth and acquisitions had no material impact. We bought back $50 million of stock in Q3, redeemed $500 million of debt and generated $28 million in operating cash flow.

This is lower than traditional for 3 main reasons: number one, we prepaid about $60 million of supplier invoices at the end of July as we will not make any payment in the early part of August; number two, we paid $29 million for the redemption of the 2015 notes and also prepaid the current interest on that note; and number three, pre-separation expenses amounted to over $60 million. I will now turn to the guidance for our fourth quarter. We expect Q4 revenues of $1.81 billion to $1.85 billion and EPS of $0.87 to $0.91. At midpoint, revenue will grow 6.5% and EPS, 10%. Our 21% projected operating margin at midpoint will be 180 basis points higher than Q3 fiscal year '14 and 60 basis points higher than Q4 of last year. While we are maintaining our spending discipline, we're also investing in key growth initiatives. We expect to generate about -- over $300 million of operating cash flow in Q4 and incur about $60 million of pre-separation costs. Now to the fiscal year 2014. The fiscal year '14 guidance at midpoint remains the same as previously communicated, but we are narrowing the range. We expect fiscal year '14 revenues to range from $6.99 billion to $7.03 billion and fiscal year '14 EPS to range from $3.04 to $3.08.

Division: Great. I just want to clarify, it's unclear what your expectation for Russia is -- unclear to me what your expectation for Russia is in the Keysight guidance. Are you reiterating that you can deliver guidance even if Russia -- business in Russia halts? Or are you retreating the guidance while cautioning us that Russia could drive downside?

Nersesian: I'm sorry, Richard, I'm not allowed to comment on particular customers' buying or test strategies.

Division: Okay. And then just -- well, let me just ask, the PXI VSA that you just started shipping, that is a bench top instrument.

Nersesian: No, it's a PXI modular instrument that could be married with other instruments in a modular form factor.

Sullivan: I'm going to turn it back to Mike, if you don't mind, to answer the first question, because again, he's got a great story on the applied side from a market perspective. And then our China business for LDA was flat. Again, Asia was up 4%, China down -- or Japan down a little bit, China, flat. And so we obviously had a very strong non-China Asia performance. I'm going to have Mike talk a little about his products and then comment on China because a lot of his is in China. But our China business was flat for LDA in the context of overall strong Asia that was up 4%. Obviously, China dominates that performance. And then after Mike answers, I'll have it turn it over to

Mullen: Thanks, Isaac, for the earlier question. So first of all building on Fred's commentary about the drivers for a quarter which we're very pleased with in terms of both the revenue and the incoming order rate, we saw this strong services and consumables performance in this CAG segment space for Q3. But we're also seeing the growth being driven by the new product introductions we have been making over the last several quarters and the past year or so, from our introductions in the mass spectrometry area, on GC/MS and ICP-MS, and as you saw in the earnings call, we highlighted that we got one other what I believe to be an award-winning product in the spectroscopy area. So we saw strong growth in the mass spectrometry business both gas space and inorganic side, as well as our base of spectroscopy business. So the innovative products we're bringing to market are actually driving growth, and this was in an environment where we had a challenged market situation in China. So I think it's fairly well publicized. The food ministries, reorganizations are underway. I think it's taking longer for those to settle out and for them to get organized and really get the procurement side going in terms of the new purchases. So we were delighted with the results of these type of growth rates and in a market, as Bill described, it was relatively flat in China. Ron?

Nersesian: As far as China, our revenue growth was a little bit over 20% for the quarter, but our order growth was 5%.

Division: Maybe, Ron, starting on the sort of basestation and more so focused on the U.S. business. It seemed like a number of peers called out weakness at a number of the large carriers here. Could you just maybe talk about sort of what you've seen from the demand base from those folks and maybe how your business differs from some of the others where they've seen weakness, like in the business you sold to

Nersesian: Sure. Obviously, we have a major difference in what we do in communications where some of the competitors obviously look at network monitoring and features that are basically, let's say, software testing of higher levels. We're testing R&D and manufacturing processes. So that is a significant difference.

Sene: Yes, Ross, I would add that we have a very strong position in R&D and manufacturing with all the infrastructure OEMs, basestation builders. And as this market has been strong in Q3, you'll see the results in our wireless numbers.

Division: Okay. And then I just want to I guess follow up on that by asking, I guess on one hand, it doesn't sound like you're expecting that to come back in Q4. On the other hand, at the end of last quarter, you talked about strong order momentum in China. You said that again I think this quarter. I believe you typically don't count something as an order unless you expect it to be fulfilled within about 6 months. So I'm just trying to reconcile these seemingly contradictory dynamics. And if my understanding is correct, are you trying to basically say that you do expect China to come back, but it may not be this quarter, it may be, say, Q1 of next year based on what you're seeing from an order standpoint?

Sullivan: Yes, I think that all of us are in the conventional wisdom that -- or a conventional view of thought that organizational changes are relatively straightforward. And that China continues to be the most -- the country with the greatest growth opportunities that we have. Every quarter, you're a little bit disappointed. I think as Mike said, exactly right, I mean, we're confident in the future, you just never know how the funding breaks. And you see that in the defense business, in Ron's business. So I think we're in a position of -- the guidance that we have is our best forecast of what's going to happen in China, so we're not expecting obviously any miracles, and we'll just have to play it out. The good news is, is that in Asia overall, our business is pretty good. In other parts of Asia, we've been quite successful. And we'll keep our fingers crossed and hope that Q4, the bottleneck breaks and we get stronger momentum going into '15.

Division: Okay and one last one. You've been tracking a bit ahead of plan thus far this year. If we think about that in the context of what you talked about in terms of dis-synergies on the new Agilent side going back to your March Analyst Day, has the fact that you've done a little bit better than expected provided you any opportunity to maybe pull some of that required investment forward and maybe benefit you from a dis-synergy standpoint next year?

Morgan: Hey. Thanks. Maybe just a follow-up on the leverage question. As we are thinking about operating margins, either Mike or Bill, can you maybe just talk about, give little bit more color on some of the drivers of margin leverage, particular on the order fulfillment and portfolio aspect and do you in fact expect SG&A leverage in ‘15 as well?

Mullen: Yeah. So, I think, this is Mike. There is three drivers behind the overall operating margin improvement and as you may have seen already, we committed to a three point operating margin improvement over the next three years, hitting 22% by 17%. And as we've also indicated, FY ‘15 is a significant transition year for us in terms of working all the synergies but also significant in terms of underlying improvement to the operating performance of the company. And the three key components of our margin improvement plan. One is the portfolio transformation that I highlighted earlier in my comments. And one example of that is the new ICP-OES, which through new product design and capability has a 20 point better gross margin position than its predecessor product. So you will continue to see us coming to market and driving, not only topline growth with improved offerings, but also a better margin structure just based on the inherent design and platform design of the product. The order fulfillment transformation program is still centered on what you saw at the March Analyst Meeting last year, where Henrik is driving overall consolidation of manufacturing sites and more importantly a drive towards lower cost of our supply chain, as we have moved our manufacturing into low-cost parts of the world, such as Penang, Malaysia where the next phase of that program is to start to move our material supply chain, which as you know, represents actually a higher element of cost of the manufacture products. And the third aspect of the plan is SG&A and R&D. R&D cost structure leverage and you will start to see in FY ‘15, particularly on the SG&A line, as we leverage that and it starts to decline as percent of overall revenue, again, adjusting for the synergies will absorb in year one.

Morgan: Okay. And in the comments you called out some of the pathology headwinds, can you maybe just talk a little bit about when you think those bottom out and how much of the headwind was impacting the quarter?

Citigroup: Okay, thanks. And just a follow-up, wondering if you can comment on manufacturing and how that factors into gross margin improvement? I guess if you look across next year to with what you have going on, how much of gross margin gain that you think you'll see is expected to come from what you might consider fix for a particular issue, whether it would be NMR or Dako versus what you just come from more opportunities to become incrementally more efficient?

Mullen: Yes, it’s a great question. And this is Mike. And that’s why I pointed to three aspects of the programs under operating margin, the supply chain transformation which you’re referring to, the portfolio transformation and then our rationalization and leverage of SG&A and R&D investments. I think it's probably legal spread across the three. It’s a little bit hard to quantify.

I: Hi, good afternoon, guys. So can you just give a little sense on the order pacing? You talked a little bit about some late orders and such. And just give a sense for how if the NMR announcement also had any impact on any of the other legacy spectroscopy businesses?

Mullen: Yeah, this is Mike. I’ll jump in with my perspective then Fred, feel free to add your view as well. But I think the answer to your question, Miro, I think it’s too early to call a year end budget flush, if you will. We were encouraged by the results but keep in mind the U.S. government closes off at September a lot of their spending. And we also had a closing of our own sales cycle at the end of October, which sometimes doesn't always mimic the spending patterns of our customers. So while encouraged, I think it’s too early to call a significant global recovery here in this segment. And Fred, I don’t know what you are hearing from your field teams.

Strohmeier: Yeah. Our field team is pretty consistent with what I'm hearing. I think academia and government markets remain soft even so we are seeing a gradual improvement. And the result we are seeing at the moment are impacted predominantly by NMR as such because this is going mainly through the academia and government market, we see a funding growth in China as Mike pointed out the results are showing that. So this is certainly impacting the growth in next year. We see a stable funding in SAPK. Japan is weak and maybe remains weak given in all of the missing stimulus from last year. You are seeing demand in HPLC, GC-MS and LCMS, what’s really hard to sub checks and this is probably driving some of the growths next year, cell biology, stem cell research and next generation sequencing. These are areas which will drive some of the growth. NaH is spending about plus 2%. This year, hopefully, we see something like that next year as well. Europe already, we heard about it, very tight. And if you look to the distribution of the countries, it’s a completely mixed bag. China reorganizing even so, I talked about the growth is reorganizing the academia of the Chinese Academy of Science, which certainly also will have some impact on the spending pattern and we talked about

Stifel: Okay. Thank you. And secondly on the gross margin it did decline slightly year-over-year, I was wondering if you could help us understand the puts and takes? And for the neoadjuvant going forward, despite the dys-synergies that you have this coming year, can you drive margin, gross margin expansion in ‘15?

Hirsch: Yeah. I mean, in terms of the gross margin, I will say, I mean, the other negatives you mentioned are the dis-synergies and as we already talked about the impact of currency on a year-over-year basis. And so that would be the main reasons why on a gross margin bases, on an adjusted operating margin basis, we are going to see some slight improvement year-over-year even with all those negative, all those headwinds. But on the gross margin, it’s going to be slightly down year-over-year.

Mullen: Yeah. I don’t know whether I really clearly answered the other part of your question. This is Mike again, which is we do see, we have the ability to improve our overall gross margins and move forward because obviously we are going to get the FDA remediation work behind us. We talked earlier about the new products coming out and as well as our supply chain transformation. So we do believe that we can improve our overall gross margins, but we are also working through some one-time transition challenges around

Hirsch: Currency has a particularly big impact on gross margins because it’s offset by the lower operating expenses. So when I said, $400 million, you have net-net $20 million to $25 million impact to the bottom line. The impact to the gross margin is more significant and then this offset in

Baird: Yes. Good afternoon. Mike, could you just talk for a minute or two about the petrochem energy chemical markets? I think you mentioned they were up 1% in the quarter and quite frankly all year, they’ve been low single-digit. But maybe, what's your assessment there as we move into ’15, are we in early innings of our commodity driven down cycle there in demand, or were orders and orders better in the fourth quarter here heading into ‘15?

Mullen: Yeah. Richard, thanks for the question. And this has been a -- I have to say, a segment of the market has been quite curious for me over the last several quarters because at the very macro level, you would expect to have seen stronger business here as you think about particularly United States where you’ve had lower feedstock cost coming down and some of our major customers actually taking about investment in the plant and infrastructure and new capacity in the U.S. So, I think what we saw in this most recent fiscal year, and a continuation of the quarter was continued challenges in industrial side of the Chinese economy where we haven't seen as much capacity been out of that we had seen in prior quarters. I believe the real wild card and this is why I think we’ll start to see some moderate return to growth in FY ‘15 in this segment is the replacement market in the private sector particularly in the U.S. The industry outside of the exploration side is actually finding itself much more profitable, the age of the assets and equipment has really moved up over the last several years. So we think that the combination of the aged assets plus the lot of our customers, who are going to need to move on to new data system because of the obsolescent by Microsoft of several of their core operating systems. I think this would point to an improved replacement market in FY ‘15 albeit I said it’s been much slower to develop than

Baird: Okay. All right. And when I look at the CAG business and LDG business heading into ‘15 and I know the core growth is kind of -- at the midpoint is 4.9%, call it 5%. Is the LDG business expected to grow above that number and CAG kind of low single digits. So how do you see the mix by end market playing to that 5% core growth number?

Sullivan: Thanks, Alicia, and hello, everyone. Today Agilent reported first quarter revenues of $1.03 billion, an increase of 2% versus last year. Orders of $995 million were up 2% over year ago, operating margin was 17.2%, earnings per share were $0.41. Mike and Didier will provide further details about Agilent’s Q1 performance, but before I turn it over to Mike, I would like to take a moment to thank the investor community for your ongoing support of Agilent. As most of you know, this will be my last earnings call as Agilent's CEO. I am very proud of the accomplishments the team has made over the last 10 years. In 2005 we launched a strategic initiative to focus on our core expertise of measurement science and direct investments into the life science markets. We divested our semiconductor related businesses, SPG now Avago, our semiconductor test business Verigy, now part of Advantest in our solid state illumination joint venture, Lumileds with Philips. With the Electronic Measurement business is the foundation of a Company, we embarked on a journey to turn a hardcore electronics company into a life science and diagnostics company. As a result of the enormous effort of the team, excellent organic growth and several key acquisitions, we have grown our analytical instrumentations, genomics and diagnostic business from $1.4 billion to $4 billion per year-on-year revenue gaining the number two position in the marketplace. This success led to our recently completed split of the company and the creation of Keysight Technologies. The ability of the company transform itself while spinning off or divesting businesses is a testament to the skills and dedication of its employees. Of course the work of the new Agilent is not done. We need to manage through the added cost of the separation to synergy and drive our operating margins higher. We will continue our commitment to be a leader in our market and we must capture the returns from the investment we have made in the clinical and diagnostic markets. Mike and his team are well prepared to lead the Company forward. Mike has a proven track record of building very profitable, market leading businesses. Mike's new team has all the expertise, skills and drive to move Agilent forward. I believe our investors, customers and employees are in excellent hands. And now I’ll turn it over to

Mullen: Thanks, Bill. I would like to take a moment to acknowledge the incredible job that Bill has done leading this Company for the past 10 years. He not only transformed Agilent into an industry leader in life sciences, but is leaving us in a very strong position for our journey ahead. And on a personal note I could not ask for better partner during the CEO transition. Thanks Bill. Now I would like to share some additional insights on the transition and the quarterly results. The transition with Agilent is full swing. At the start of Q1 we announced the most expansive reorganization in our Company’s history. Three new business groups were formed to drive expansion in the core Analytical Lab and leverage its leading position to further penetrate the connected clinical research and diagnostics markets. We launched an Agile Agilent program to streamline and create a more nimble customer focused and faster moving company. In Q1 we delivered a strong start to the year, driven by the strength of our core Analytical Lab business. We delivered 2% reported growth or 6% core growth. We have strong profitability despite currency headwinds and challenges in our diagnostics and genomics business. Our Analytical Lab business, which represents 86% of the total Company is comprised of two recently reported business segments, the Life Sciences and Applied markets group and the Agilent CrossLab group. The Life Sciences and Applied Markets group LSAG brings together Agilent’s Analytical Laboratory instrumentation and informatics. LSAG’s revenues grew 2% reported growth or 5% on a core basis. Growth was broad based across most product lines and end markets. Operating margin for the quarter was 19.6%. Our growth continues to be driven by innovative new offerings. The Agilent 1290 Infinity II LC System which we launched in Q4 has been extremely well received by the market. This system sets a new benchmark in analytical instrument and laboratory efficiency. New spectroscopy products such as recently released FTIR, imaging hardware and software enhancements are accelerating research through improved workflows and opening up imaging to a wider range of non-spectroscopy customers. The new Agilent CrossLab Group, ACG which combines our Analytical Lab services and consumables business under a new Agilent brand delivered outstanding results. ACG revenues grew 5%, up 10% on a core basis. Growth was strong across consumable supplies, columns, sample prep and services. This reflects the innovative products we are bringing to market and the customer value proposition of our CrossLab strategy. We saw exceptional growth and demand for our QuEChERS sample prep kits. The introduction of RFID Inventory Management services were also well received by the market and customers. Operating margin for ACG was 20.7%. The Diagnostics and Genomics Group, DGG is comprised of three divisions. First, former Dako Company’s focus on pathology, companion diagnostics and reagent partnerships. Second, the genomics division includes our arrays, NGS Target Enrichment and our other genomic solutions. Third, the Nucleic Acid solution division manufactured synthetic RNA to be potentially used an active pharmaceutical ingredients. DGG’s first quarter revenues declined 6% year-over-year down 1% on a core basis. We enjoyed record placements of Omnis Instruments, strong companion diagnostic business and strong SureSelect NGS Target Enrichment business. However, both of our Nucleic Acid businesses were significantly impacted by manufacturing issues that were resolved late in the quarter. Operating margin was 0.5%, impacted by the lower revenues and the remediation expenses to last year’s FDA warning letter. Those remediation efforts are going well on track with our expectation to be completed by Q4. We continue to strengthen our portfolio. In January DGG launched a new generic sure pre-screen kit. This kit provides an innovative test for abnormal number of chromosomes. At the same time DGG launched a new release of its cytogenetic software, which enables rapid analysis of samples processed with a pre-screen kit. Together this solution provides a faster turnaround on the market. Also in January we announced a strategic partnership with Cell Signaling Technology to supply antibodies for use with Dako-branded diagnostics products. We expect to return DGG to low double digit operating margins in Q2, driven by a recently announced restructuring initiative, and a return to normal manufacturing operations at our California and Colorado sites. Now let’s take a look at Agilent’s total Company performance by end markets on a reported basis. Pharma revenues were 6%. We saw strength in technology refresh deals, helping demand in mid to small sized pharma and sustaining growth in the aftermarket. We continue to see improving conditions in life science research or Academia & Government of 1% with increased funding from Europe and China. Demand for high end LCMS as well as GC, GC-MS, informatics and consumables drove results. Our Food Testing business grew 5%. We had solid growth worldwide as governments and major food manufacturers managed the challenges of a complex global food supply and public food safety demands. Environmental markets grew 4%, driven by China and the continuous focus on creating a cleaner environment. In addition to increasing enforcement of its existing environmental regulations, China is developing new monitoring methods and legislation driving growth in this space. Chemical Energy revenues were flat year-over-year as the industry responds to a greater than expected drop in oil prices. We saw a slight decline in Forensics down 2% as some U.S state and federal U.S agencies have delayed their capital purchases due to some budget uncertainty. Turning to Clinical and Diagnostics, revenues declined 4% over a year ago. Their primary driver is manufacturing capacity constraints addressed late in the quarter. Geographically Americas grew 3%, Europe 2% and Asia 1%. China revenue, including Hong Kong was a source of strength, up by double-digits on demand from Food and Environmental customers and a relatively easy compare. On the other hand revenues in Japan were down 19%. This was primarily currency related due to the weakening yen, along with a difficult year-over-year compare. Moving to the year ahead in our last call I highlighted three focus areas to drive shareholder value. One, grow organically at the high end of the market; two, aggressively expand operating margins; three, deploy capital for long-term shareholders value. Moving from our update on the strong Q1 core growth, a few highlights on our operating margin improvement initiatives and capital deployment. The exit of the NMR hardware business announced in October is proceeding as planned. In Q1 we completed the closure and sale of our Lake Forest, California chemistry manufacturing site and consolidation of production volume into an existing Ashland site. We have initiated a restructuring program as part of the Company's reorganization. We have also launched a multiyear Agile Agilent program, reengineering our Company to be a more nimble, efficient and customer focused. We expect gross savings of a minimum of $50 million in 2015 from all these actions. We will also continue to tax effectively deploy capital for a long-term shareholders value. This year as previously stated, we intend to return $500 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks. We will complete the CEO transition at the March 18th Shareholders Meeting with my new leadership team fully in place. My new team and I look forward to our May 28 Analyst Meeting in New York. At this meeting I will outline my strategic vision for the Company, our plans to outpace the market, drive EPS growth and achievement of our long-term operating model. It's a full core press within Agilent to stay in our core growth trajectory, mitigate currency headwinds and drive earnings. Thank you for being on the call today. I will now turn it over to Didier, who will provide a more detailed discussion of Agilent's financial results and guidance. Didier?

Hirsch: Thank you Mike and hello everyone. To summarize Q1 results, we delivered on our revenue and EPS midpoint guidance, even as currency impacted our revenue by $12 million and our EPS by $0.01. Also, adjusting for the $11 million reimbursements from key sites for Agilent IT and site services, our operating margin was 18.2%, 1 percentage point higher than the reported operating margin. Regarding our Q1 negative operating margin cash flow of $20 million, it was impacted by three factors. First, separation related expenses amounted to $33 million; second; transformation and expenses amounted to $14 million; and third, we paid $42 million in taxes related to the spin. In addition we paid in December as usual the variable compensation related to the previous six months. I will now turn to the guidance for fiscal year 2015. The strengthening of the U.S dollar since our last guidance has a negative impact of $130 million on our revenue, $30 million on operating profit and $0.08 on our EPS. However thanks to the strength of our business and the initiatives underway that Mike mentioned, we anticipate offsetting about $0.05 of the currency impact. We are therefore only slightly modifying our previous guidance. We expect fiscal year '15 revenue of $4.06 billion to $4.12 billion. At the midpoint of our revenue guidance, our year-over-year growth will be 1% on a reported basis but 6.9% on a core basis, the difference due to currency. Our core growth is driven by strong order funnel, expected recovery in our DGG business, the impact of a significant number of new products and continued improvement and demand from China. We project fiscal year ’15 EPS to range from a $1.67 to $1.73 with a midpoint of a $1.70. Please note that our EPS guidance assumes 338 million shares and that our annual operating cash flow is projected at $550 million. Finally moving to the guidance for our second quarter, we expect Q2 revenues of $985 million to a $1,005 million and EPS of $0.37 to $0.41. At midpoint revenue will grow 0.7% year-over-year on a reported basis or 7.5% on a core basis, the difference again as a result of currency. At midpoint, Q2's adjusted operating margin of 18.2% will be 130 basis points higher than last year’s. With that I’ll turn it over to

Knight: Mike, it looks like your growth rate in analytical was above market. Do you think you are taking share and one of you been – from your experience in Wilmington, what’s happening the right way for you to be doing this kind of share gain?

Mullen: Yes, Paul thanks for the question. And when we looked at the performance for the first quarter, we had 6% core growth and if you actually stripped out the NMR, its 7% growth for us in the first quarter. I think it’s always -- I'll leave the are we gaining market share question to my competitors. But we think that this recipe of new product innovation and really making sure our operational challenges are behind us and picking the right leaders I would add are really driving this strong growth and the growth across our portfolio is really broad based and in fact I’ll ask Patrick to make some few comments here as well. One other thing I forgot to mention Paul around our results in Europe, we had a very strong European regional manager who now is running our global sales operations and the new analytical lab sales force. So quite confident that the will bring his talent to the globalization and you've seen his success already in Europe. And Patrick, maybe a little bit more comment on what you saw in the lab site for the instruments and then

Kaltenbach: Sure, thanks Mike. We definitely seen a lot of momentum based on our new regionally introduced portfolio and solutions like the Infinity II series LC that we launched in Q4, the ICP OES, the FTIR and high end MS solutions. Those products have been really well received by our customers and we actually have a very strong funnel behind these products. And that’s also why we are looking forward also to very successful

Mullen: I’ll make some initial comments here, then introduce Jacob Thaysen, our Group President for our Diagnostics and Genomics business. So as you saw on our call notes, we think we’ll be back to low double digit profitability in the second quarter. Your question really is in terms of the overall top line return to market growth and above market growth and I think it’s -- what you’ll hear from Jacob is some really aggressive plans to continue to push the growth rate and many encouraging signs, particularly with the Omnis side of things but why don’t I not steal

Thaysen: Thank you, Mike and thanks Tycho for the question. I do believe that we have an exciting opportunity also in Darko to come back and we had a record number of shipments of Omnis in this quarter. And this is actually a very good indicator for an improved position in the market. And overall the market continues to be very attractive. We -- actually I do believe we have the right solutions to regain market share. For example also on the IQ HER2 FISH site, which is a very important component in diagnosing breast cancer, we have also launched a very good product that has been able to take the turnaround time form 24 hours down to be done within the same day. And this will actually allow the laboratory to perform analysis that was not possible to do before within the same day. And we see substantial market improvement also on that. So I do believe at this point of time we have the right products, we have the right team. And we will see momentum during ’15 and into ’16 also to regain into market.

Peterson: Last one just on the operational initiatives you highlighted Mike, I mean I think someone argued multiple and stocks kind of given you benefit for that, maybe some M&A expectation as well. But can you just talk about what you see as kind of the path to additional value creation from what you’ve laid out here? In other words why the reluctance to buyback more stock beyond the $365 million that you talked about and the reluctance to maybe cut a little deeper bit to try to get something north of a 22% operating margin by ’17?

Arias: Within DGG, just hoping you could expand it down the manufacturing issues that you ran into with the Nucleic Acid business, now I guess how much of the DGG revenue basis that piece comprised?

Kaltenbach: Yes, so as Mike alluded to we have three overall businesses, the former Dako , business, the pathology rating partnership and CDS and we actually saw performance according to our expectation on those businesses. So then we also have the genomics solutions division and then our nucleic acid solution division and in the nucleic acid solution division that’s where we saw the manufacturing chances. And as was alluded to before the genomics, the business is here, the nucleic acid solution business is very small business compared to others, but we have some larger customer and thereby moving the shipment from one quarter to the other actually have a significant impact on our overall performance.

Mullen: And Jacob as I recall, I think our genomics and NASD business is about 40% of the total of your segment.

Couillard: In terms of the revenue growth outlook, 200 basis points higher, I'm pretty sure you’re probably the Company on the planet raising guidance at this point in the year. What gives you the confidence? What’s changed exactly relative to three months ago, one or two most important things, whether it’s China or new product flow? Can you parse that out for us?

Mullen: Sure, Brandon. Thanks for the question and first of all, I’ll start with the strength of our Analytical Lab business in the first quarter. It has momentum, it grew 6% core growth, 7% without the NMR impact fueled by new product introductions. The new products that we highlighted in our call last several quarters are driving new growth and the operational challenges we have in China are behind us and that’s in a backdrop of a gradually improving overall China market. So point one would be strength in the Analytical Lab business fueled by new product innovations and the addressing of previously disclosed operations in China and the second one is cognizant recovery in our diagnostics and genomics business. As we outlined in our call today, we had some operational issues that are being addressed and we’re quite confident in our ability to right the ship and get that business in the direction we want it to be. So there's the two things I will leave you with, strength in the Analytical Lab business and the cognizant recovery of our diagnostics and genomics business.

Couillard: Okay, that’s helpful. And then Didier, just on the Agilent savings plan. I think you said gross savings expected at $50 million this year. If I just think about the bridge between your prior guidance for revised outlook, can you quantify the buckets between better organic growth, currency lowers, restructuring benefits, just the moving parts?

Rodriguez: Thank you, Siad and thank you everybody joining us today. We appreciate you joining our call and if you have any questions, please give us a call at

Officer: Thanks, Alicia. Hello everyone. Thank you for joining us today for our Q2 call, my first as CEO of the new Agilent. I will start with a summary of our Q2 operating financial performance. Next, I will cover our progress on operating margin expansion and stock repurchases. Finally, I will close an update on our current guidance. I'm pleased to report that Agilent delivered solid earnings within guidance. I'm even more pleased to share the story of our top line order growth. This growth is being driven by a continued strong market acceptance of our new offerings and the effectiveness of our new sales structure. Let me start with four major operational highlights. First, our Agile Agilent program launched last quarter. This program is successfully removing costs from the business and allowing us to aggressively build a more nimble and streamlined company. Second, we addressed manufacturing-driven backlog issues in our nucleic acid businesses. As a result, we have returned DGG to double-digit profitability. A third operational highlight is some very good news. After a lot of hard work and significant investment, our FDA warning letter was lifted six months earlier than expected. Finally, we strengthened Agilent's portfolio by divesting our XRD business. Now let me review Agilent's financials for the second fiscal quarter. Our Q2 revenue was down 3% and grew 4% on a core or currency-adjusted basis to $963 million. Reported orders grew 1% and were up 8% on a core basis to $1.04 billion. Excluding the divested businesses of NMR and XRD, core revenue growth was 5% and core order growth was 10%. Book-to-bill increased 1.08, as we were unable to convert all this order strength into revenue within the quarter. Let me provide some additional detail. First, we had a lot of orders come in later in the quarter. Second, shipping challenges at our new Americas logistics center delayed some customer shipments until Q3. The shipping issue was a start-up issue and is being addressed; however, the order timing and shipping challenges accounted for approximately $30 million of revenue that was pushed from Q2 to Q3. The strengthening dollar also had an impact, reducing reported revenue by $6 million versus our guidance. Despite the revenue recognition delay, we are quite pleased with our bottom line performance. Operating margin, adjusted for Keysight billings, was 18.3%, up 140 basis points over a year ago. Earnings per share were $0.38 with both the operating margin and EPS results matching guidance. Moving on to the results by business group. The Life Sciences Applied Markets Group, or LSAG as a reminder, brings together Agilent's analytical laboratory instruments and informatics. Core revenue growth was 1%, or 2% excluding NMR. Growth was led by LC, microfluidics, mass spec, ICP-OES, and software. Orders were strong across the group, up 6% on a core basis and up 10% excluding NMR. As an aside, the previously communicated exit of the NMR hardware business continues to proceed as planned. Operating margin for the quarter was 15.8%. We saw excellent growth in LC systems in the second quarter. The new 1290 Infinity II system, which we launched in Q4, continues to be well received by the market. This system sets new benchmarks in analytical efficiency, quality, ease of use, and integration. We expect the 1290 Infinity II product portfolio to deliver double-digit growth through fiscal year 2015. We ship the new 6545 LCMS Q-TOF with a formal launch scheduled for the ASMS Conference at the beginning of June. The 6545 addresses a core Q-TOF market with better performance, increased uptime and robustness, and improved ease of use for small molecule applications. We released OpenLAB ELN 5.0. The new electronic lab notebook adds several core feature enhancements, including an iPad mobile client. Next, the Agilent CrossLab Group, or ACG, combines our analytical laboratory services and consumables business under a new Agilent brand. ACG delivered outstanding results. Core revenues were up 7%, while core orders grew 12% in the quarter. Operating margin was 21.5%. In consumables, we expanded the Poroshell 120 family to include a new 4-micron particle size. Sales of this family have exceeded expectations and are contributing to continued growth in the Poroshell family. We released the AdvanceBIO sample prep kit, which adds to our separation and manual sample prep technologies. Our recently introduced A-Line supply portfolio is ramping well above expectations. And customers have responded very favorably to our new FRID (sic) inventory management service solution. Finally, the

G, is comprised of three divisions: the former Dako business, genomics, and nucleic acid solutions. DGG recovered nicely in Q2, as previously guided, delivering strong core revenue growth of 10% versus a year ago. Dako and the nucleic acid businesses led DGG's results. Orders grew 5% on a core basis. DGG returned to double-digit operating margins, delivering 15% in Q2. In April, we announced that the U.S. FDA lifted its warning letter on Agilent's Dako, Denmark subsidiary earlier than expected. We're on track for the remaining remediation efforts to be completed by Q3. And our companion diagnostics engagement with Merck continues to make progress. In April, Merck submitted a biologics license application to the FDA for the treatment of lung cancer. Omnis Instruments continued to gain customer traction, setting a new quarterly record for instrument placements. And SureFISH again saw strong growth, driven by sales through the pathology channel. This is just one example of the synergy that we're able to leverage across the new Agilent. Our expertise and experience in analytical labs continues to drive further penetration into adjacent clinical and diagnostics laboratories. We expect these types of synergies to be characteristic of the new Agilent. In keeping with our strategy of executing bolt-on acquisitions of complementary growth businesses, earlier this month, we announced our acquisition of Cartagenia for €60 million. Cartagenia is a leading provider of software and services for clinical genetics and molecular pathology labs. Now, let's take a brief look at Agilent's end-market performance on a core basis. Pharmaceutical revenue grew strongly with broad-based results across customers and products. We also saw excellent demand in clinical and diagnostics, with revenue growing solidly during the quarter. Growth in food and environmental revenue was more modest, led by demand from China. Academia and government revenue decreased slightly due to some delayed budgets and order backlog build. Chemical energy saw a similar decrease from lower oil prices, as expected. The decline in oil production and exploration was partially offset by refining and chemical demand. Geographically, we saw excellent core revenue growth in the Americas, with moderate growth in Europe and Asia excluding China and Japan. Greater China orders were strong, though not yet reflected in revenue. Similarly, Japan core revenue declined but saw single-digit core growth in orders. As you know, we completed the CEO transition at the March 18th shareholder meeting, and our new leadership team is fully in place. During our Q1 call, I highlighted three focus areas where we're working as a team to drive shareholder value.

As a reminder, they are: accelerate organic growth, expand operating margin, deploy capital for long-term shareholder value. Turning from the report out of the momentum in our core growth, let me update you on our operating margin improvement initiatives and Q2 capital deployment actions. We are executing our multi-year Agile Agilent program, reengineering the company to be more efficient, nimble and externally focused. Our previously announced restructuring is underway. The new sales channel and divisional structure are fully implemented. We continue to look for opportunities to streamline and rethink our legacy business models. The recent closing of our U.S. Government Affairs office is just one example. We have already delivered $24 million of the expected gross savings of $50 million in 2015 from our combined actions. We remain committed to achieving a 22% operating margin by FY 2017. As previously guided, this year we're on track to return $500 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks. In Q2, we repurchased $162 million of stock, bringing our year-to-date repurchases to $168 million. In our Q1 call, we raised our core growth guidance and commit to offset $0.05 of negative FX impact through cost controls and other actions. We are confirming this full year EPS guidance. Didier will provide further details in his remarks. As the new CEO, it gives me great pleasure to announce that Forbes has identified Agilent as one of America's best employers in its first-ever ranking. We're rated as a top employer in the healthcare equipment and services industry category. Part of my mission would make us even better. We look forward to seeing you at our May 28th analyst meeting in New York. We'll take that opportunity to discuss Agilent's businesses in more detail. I look forward to sharing more about the steps we are taking to reach the goals we have set to drive long-term shareholder value through accelerated growth, operating margin expansion, and optimal capital allocation. Thank you for joining our call today, and I'll now turn it over to Didier, who will provide a more detailed discussion of Agilent's financial results and guidance. Didier?

President: Thank you, Mike, and hello everyone. To recap the quarter, our core order and revenue growth, excluding the impact of closed and divested businesses, were respectively 10% and 5%. As Mike stated, about $30 million of revenues was carried over into Q3 due to late incoming orders and some startup issues with the transfer of our U.S. distribution center. Those issues have now been stabilized and they will be fixed this quarter. Although revenues ended up $32 million under the midpoint of our guidance, adjusted operating margin was 18.3%, 10 basis points higher than guidance, and 140 basis points higher than last year on 2.5% lower nominal revenues. This quarter, currency subtracted about 6.8 percentage points from our year-over-year revenue growth. Finally, we bought back $162 million of stock in Q2 and generated $183 million in operating cash flow. I'll now turn to the guidance for our third quarter. We expect Q3 revenues of $995 million to $1.015 billion and EPS of $0.38 to $0.42. At midpoint, revenue will grow 7% on a core basis. Our 18.3% adjusted operating margin at midpoint will be equal to this quarter's operating margin. We expect to continue our disciplined buyback program and reach the planned $365 million of repurchases by year-end. Now to the guidance for the fiscal year. Versus our previous guidance, currency is forecasted to have a $10 million negative impact on revenue. We are adjusting our revenue guidance for that impact, but we are not modifying our EPS guidance. We expect fiscal year 2015 revenues to range from $4.05 billion to $4.11 billion and fiscal year 2015 EPS to range from $1.67 to $1.73. With that, I'll turn it over to

C: Hey, good afternoon, guys, and thanks for taking the questions. My first question is really on the guidance. So you slightly reduced full-year revenue growth expectations, but not by much. I believe your second half core growth would have to exceed about 7% to get to your full year guidance. When you combine these observations with the observation that you talked about strong backlog heading into the third quarter, but then you guided revenue expectations a bit below where consensus stood, it does seem like second half growth is not only expected to accelerate but also to be a bit more back-end loaded than most of us were expecting. Could you just talk about what gives you confidence in the implied Q4 growth acceleration expectations that you seemingly built into guidance?

Officer: Yeah, Doug, this is Mike. Thanks for the great question. And let me offer some additional commentary on our thinking about the confidence we have in the top line momentum and also our thinking about how we guided for the second half. When we look – obviously, very pleased with the top line momentum that I mentioned in my prepared remarks. And if you look at it, we've had two strong top line order quarters for the company. And what we're seeing is strong market, end-market strength in pharma, clinical and diagnostics, a strong U.S. and recovering China market. And we believe we're very well-positioned, which is reflected in the order numbers, to capture this growth with the strength with not only our portfolio but also our new sales structure. As I did mention in my remarks, though, we did have some startup issues with the logistics center. And also, we saw a late time in orders coming in the quarter. So we're becoming increasingly mindful of what seemed to be a change of customer buying behavior as we look at our revenue projections for the third quarter. But with the backlog, the ongoing strength of the top line, we remain quite confident in our ability to deliver on the top line growth forecast. Didier, anything else that you would add?

President: No, just to quantify. I mean, the $30 million that moved into Q3 is equivalent to 3 percentage points of revenue, if you would adjust the first half of that 3 percentage points, that really moved into the second half, then the growth between the first half to the second half is a lot more reasonable.

Business: Yeah, thank you, Mike. And you're right – it makes up about 25 – chemical and energy makes up about 25% of Agilent's business, and – but as a reminder, the decline is mainly driven by the impact on the falling oil prices. And we have seen most of it on the customers on the exploration side. And actually that segment is only 15% of our chemical and energy segment overall. So I think actually there is some upside still on the chemical side based on the lower feedstock prices that has not yet materialized. I think these customers are still a little cautious to start more spending. So we will continue to carefully monitor the situation. But I don't see any immediate changes or more dramatic reductions in the business overall. I think, again, there will be into 2016, probably you will see the shortfall on the exploration side, but it's positive momentum what we can expect – positive momentum on the chemical side.

C: Hey, thanks. Mike, can you just clarify how much of the $30 million delay was self-inflicted versus – the shipping center stuff versus the customer order side? And on the customer side, was that all academic?

Officer: Tycho, you kind of broke up a bit in the call. I think you're asking about the breakdown of the $30 million revenue?

Officer: Oh, yeah. Got it. Got it. It's roughly 50%-50%. So, about $15 million of it was through the start-up issues with our logistics network in the United States, and the other $15 million was from very late coming in orders that we couldn't turn into revenue within the quarter.

C: And then can you maybe touch on share dynamics? I'm sure we're all going to get the question tomorrow, given that Waters have been up 15% organic. Can you maybe just talk about how much of what you're seeing was – I mean the order book was up 6%, so that's the silver lining. But can you just talk about your ability to hold share in this environment? And any color on pricing would be helpful too.

C: Mike, just a question on the pharma market. I think this is the first time in a little while you've mentioned a large pharma group as being a source of strength in the period. Are you seeing a recovery from that customer base? And just kind of talk about the outlook I guess for the balance of the year in the pharma market.

Officer: Yeah, good catch, because we've been talking before about the small and medium size in specialty pharma, so it's a broad-based recovery, and we're really starting to see the large pharma investing and really coming off their delayed technology refresh plan. So I think that's why Patrick mentioned earlier the very strong growth we're seeing in our LC and LC-MS product line. So, this is a much larger broad-based recovery across pharma than we have pointed to in the past. And then biopharma continues to be a strong segment in the industry as well.

C: And one more for Didier. Given the Dako resolution came in about six months earlier than planned, curious why the incremental spend that's baked into the outlook isn't lower I guess relative to the prior view of about $15 million of incremental spend.

I: Good afternoon, guys. So I guess as we try to put tonight's print in context, obviously, CapEx business or the backlog swings, we've seen these before. But it seems to happen here a little bit more than we've seen it at some of the other CapEx-focused players. So Mike, you've been spending a lot of time trying to reinvigorate sales and the sales organization, and obviously you've got your margin discipline you're also trying to execute against. I mean as you think about all of the various moving parts here, do you feel like pushing the organization to degree that you are, this is sort of the result? Or do you think this is purely kind of just, hey, we just didn't execute and things need to change? I'm just trying to figure out how to isolate – we heard the explanation before – kind of how to put in context all of the moving parts with kind of the outcome. Because obviously you sound excited, but I think the stock's 5% now; the shareholders aren't nearly as excited today. So I'm trying to figure out how to put that all together.

Officer: Hey, Ross, thanks for the question and the acknowledgment of the efforts we have underway to really accelerate traction in a couple of key topics for us on a strategic nature. So, great question. So when I step back from them and look at this, which is, I went to great lengths to highlight the start-up issue we had with logistics center. But – and I think it's an evidence of the new Agilent in terms of we're going to make bold moves. We're going to drive towards changing our cost structure. When we're done here, we'll have probably $3 million or so out of our cost structure, much improved customer experience. So – and then when I found out about my team and I learned about my team is when we have issues, such as the one we discovered once we went live in the later part of March, we got all over it. What I didn't share with you was also the fact that we delivered 10% order growth in the midst of a major field reorganization. So I think that we're not pushing the team too hard. We have the ability to execute and to drive the company forward aggressively. There will be – perhaps will be some times won't go completely according to plan. But what this team will do is get all over it as a team and work very quickly to address it. So hopefully that gives you some insight in terms of how the company is running inside. We're enthusiastic, we're energized, and I don't think anybody believes that they're overly taxed yet.

I: And maybe as a follow-up, so you bought a little bit more stock this quarter, but it's still a pretty small amount relative to your overall share mix. So we just saw last week, one of your larger peers buy a separations chromotography asset for 19 times EBITDA. As you think about sort of the value of your asset, particularly relative to all of the things you're doing to hopefully augment and fix and improve the profitability of it, as you think about sort of harnessing some of those returns for Agilent shareholders, and maybe you'll cover it in more detail at the Analyst Day. But how are you guys thinking about the share buyback, just given sort of all the various data points out there in the market?

C: CrossLab was a little lower growth in the current quarter than the 10% or so organically in January's quarter. Was that due to this re-org you were talking about, Mike, or what was going on with CrossLab? Was it weather, et cetera?

Officer: No, we've got a lot of our – and Mark you can jump in as well. We got a lot of our revenue hung up in the logistics center issue that I talked about earlier, because we have such a high velocity of consumables and support parts going through, not only the U.S. logistics center for U.S. customers, but also as a gateway into our global customer base as well. So you'll note in our prepared remarks, I think we had 12% organic order growth. So it really was a story on the logistics center. But Mark, anything else you want to add?

Group: Well there's the other nuance, Mike, which in services, obviously order growth doesn't translate immediately to revenues. And this 12% growth, a lot of that came through services. And what you'll see is that becomes an annuity stream going forward for the remaining quarters. So I would say we put some money in the bank for looking out into the next year.

Officer: Yeah, and we had high single digit order growth. We think it was a few digits.

President: Yes, exactly. And perhaps low to mid single digits on the revenue side. And again, as Patrick said, it's very difficult this quarter to talk about revenue considering the $30 million. And for example, a lot of that impacted China because although we kind of recovered some towards the end of the quarter, because of the shipment times, we were not able to recognize revenue, in particular in China. It was the region that was the most impacted by the $30 million revenue shortfall.

President: The facility is in the U.S., but it ships all over on whatever is produced in the U.S. And including, for example, it ships GCMS into China, and because of a long transit time,

C: Let's just start by rounding out the geography. You called out Japan. So subsequent to the revenue commentary, you made a comment there, much like China, that the orders were very strong. It seems like while you're certainly not the first to call out Japan as an area where there are a few moving parts, can you give us a sense for what it is that you're seeing in Japan? Number one, is this an area where some of the shipment delays are having an impact? Number two, to the extent there is any softness there, where are you seeing it? And number three, how do you see it playing out over the balance of the year?

Officer: Yes sure. thanks, Steve, for the opportunity to talk, provide some insight into Japan. Different story from my perspective than China. Though we were pleased to see the order growth that we saw in Q2, we have to keep in mind that it was off a relatively easy compare in 2014. And I think we know the history there with the Japanese implementation, the VAT tax, and how it really changed the seasonality of orders for everybody in the early part of last year. What we're seeing going forward is a environment where we're expecting continued weakness in the academia and government segment. The quantitative easing budget money doesn't seem to be really flowing into our space. The flip side of that is, we're actually seeing improvements in the private sector. Now it's a very fragile environment right now, but we think that if it's holding together, we expect it to be subdued. It won't be the same level of growth as you're going to see in China, but we're also not seeing any kind of significant downturn. And Didier, I don't know if you have any other observations on

Lynch: Great and just one final question. So you said XRD was about $15 million, and remind me what the NMR hit was to this year?

President: Yes, on the year-over-year basis, it was relatively minimum. I'll give you the numbers. But it had a much bigger impact on orders, obviously, because we stopped taking orders. So last year, we had about $50 million of orders for the whole year on NMR, and this year, is even slightly negative because we canceled a few of the orders in the backlog. And in terms of revenue last year, we had about $80 million in revenue. This year, we'll have about $65 million, and we'll have some revenue even next year as we recognize revenue on the last OEM magnet that we stopped taking orders on back two years ago, but we are still shipping.

Inc.: Yes, good afternoon guys. Let me start with a question on the sales-force reorganization. Perhaps remind us how exactly you reorganized, other than the divisional changes that you made.

Business: Yeah, absolutely, and you're right on, of course having to deal with an FDA warning letter, you have a lot of operational focus on dealing with that warning letter and taking some of our focus away from new product development. Fortunately, we have more sites. We have had strong development activities on other sites like the Carpinteria side and also our genomics side. We, in particular, within our companion diagnostic, we are looking into some very, very exciting launches coming up over the next quarters. I think you heard already Mike alluding to Merck & Co. has communicated their ambitions within the PDL1 assay – PDL1 drug target, and we are together with them on coming out with a PDL1 assay. And we definitely look into over next quarters at least one launch in that area maybe even two. And on the genomics side, we have had quite a lot of exciting launches this quarter also that I could talk a long time about, but I don't think we have time for it right here.

Inc.: In the diagnostics business, just going through the slides, the delayed Q1 shipments, is there a way to quantify what that helped in the quarter? And then as you look into the back half, just being able to press some of the better growth now that you're past the warning letter and the manufacturing issues there?

Officer: Yes, thanks, Jack, for the question. I'll pass it over to Jacob or perhaps, Didier, you want to weigh in on this as well?

Relations: Thank you everybody for joining us on the call today. If you have any questions, please give us a call, and we'd like to wish you all a good day.

Mullen: Thanks, Alicia, and hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today’s call. I will start with a summary of our Q3 performance. Then I’ll move to an update and outlook on operating margin expansion and capital deployment plans. Finally, I will close with our full-year guidance. I am very pleased to report our Q3 results, with the Agilent team delivering revenue at the high-end of our guidance and earnings above our guidance range. Agilent’s Q3 revenue of $1.01 billion grew 1% over a year ago, up 9% on a core basis. Orders of $953 million, while down 6% compared to a year ago, were up 3% on a core basis. Our strong revenue growth was driven by continued strength in the pharma, diagnostics, environmental and forensics markets, and across all geographies. We saw strong customer acceptance of our new instrument product introductions, and strength in our CrossLab services and consumables, diagnostics and genomics offerings. We also resolved previous start-up issues in our Americas Logistics Center, which delayed $15 million of shipments last quarter. A few additional comments on the order front, our 3% core growth was against a tough compare of 9% growth in Q3 ’14. We also experienced some U.S. and state government big deal delays into Q4, and customers in the industrial markets continue to take a cautious stance, in like a weak -- in light of weak commodity prices and uncertainties in the world economies. Adjusted operating margin, including the adjustment for Keysight billings, was 19.9%, expanding 110 basis points over a year ago. Earnings per share were $0.44. This marks another quarter of significant year-over-year margin improvements, driven by our intense focus on growing our operating margin, as we seek to achieve 22% margins by fiscal 2017. Moving on to the results by business group. The Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group or LSAG as a reminder, brings together Agilent’s analytical laboratory instruments and informatics. Core revenue growth of 9% was driven by strong performance in Pharma, environmental and forensics markets. Core orders were down 1%. LSAG operating margin for the quarter was 18.7%, up 220 basis points from a year ago. The previously announced exit of the NMR hardware business continues to proceed as planned. We expect our LSAG sales funnels to continue to strengthen, given a number of recent significant new product introductions. At June’s HPLC 2015 Conference in Geneva, we further enhanced our new Infinity II LC line with the new 1290 Infinity II Vial-Sampler. This product significantly lowers the entry price to the top-line product range, offering analytical laboratories a cost-effective way to experience the advantages of ultrahigh-pressure liquid chromatography. We released the 6470 LC/MS Triple-Quad at ASMS in June. This newly engineered core platform provides attogram-level sensitivity, and accurate quantitation with up to six orders of linear dynamic range. The new product delivers significant improvements to the best-selling core LC/MS Triple-Quad, the 6460. It offers improved performance, precision, speed and robustness; and features a small footprint to preserve bench space in the lab. And in spectroscopy, the 7800 quadrupole ICP-MS, which we launched in Q2, is the latest addition to Agilent’s industry-leading ICP-MS portfolio. This new product raises the standard for routine elemental analysis. Next, the Agilent CrossLab Group, or ACG, combines our analytical laboratory services and consumables businesses under a new Agilent brand. Core revenues were up 8%, while core orders grew 6% in the quarter. Operating margin was 22.6%. Last quarter, we launched the Agilent CrossLab Brand Promise program. This program is focused on delivering a new and integrated approach that offers actionable insights to help customers. New service solutions include laboratory business intelligence reporting, RFID inventory management services, and laboratory asset utilization services. And in consumables, we expanded our AdvanceBio portfolio of solutions, which enables scientists to speed research and lower costs. Finally, turning to the

G is comprised of three divisions: the former Dako business, Genomics and Nucleic Acid Solutions. DGG’s results were driven by excellent performance across all three divisions, pathology and companion diagnostics, genomics and nucleic acid businesses. DGG’s core revenue grew 10% versus a year ago. Orders grew 8% on a core basis. Operating margin of 16.8% was up 330 basis points over Q3 of fiscal year 2014. In the third quarter, DGG completed its acquisition of Cartagenia, a leading provider of software for clinical genetics and molecular pathology labs. We launched updated Gene Expression Microarray tools for researchers to better investigate expression patterns on a highly accessible platform. Adding to products for next generation sequencing, we released new Target-Enrichment Solutions for disease research, which will address current limitations in exome sequencing. Now, let’s take a brief look at Agilent’s revenue by end market performance on a core basis. Life sciences and diagnostics markets continued to see strength in pharma, a recovery with strong demand in the diagnostics and clinical market, and moderate growth in academia and government. Applied end-market performance was led by continued spending in environmental and forensics, and moderate growth in food. Chemical and energy was flat, due to reduced investments in oil exploration. We also saw cautious spending in downstream refining and chemical segments, driven by macroeconomic uncertainty concerns. Geographically, we saw healthy core revenue growth across all regions, particularly in the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific, with strong growth in China. Major pharma spending was brisk, with large firms upgrading to the new Infinity LC platform. Turning from the report out of Agilent’s revenue and order results, let me update you on our operating margin improvement initiatives and Q3 capital deployment actions and outlook. Thanks to those of you on the call who joined us at our May Analyst and Investor Meeting. As a reminder, I highlighted three focus areas where we are working as a team to drive shareholder value : deliver above-market revenue growth, expand operating margins to historic highs and return 85% of free cash flow to shareholders. I’ve just discussed our revenue growth. Now here’s an update on our operating margin and capital deployment. Our multi-year “Agile Agilent” program is re-engineering the company to be more efficient, nimble and externally focused. As of the third fiscal quarter, we have delivered $35 million of the expected gross savings of $50 million in 2015 from our combined actions. We are committed to achieving a 22% operating margin by FY ‘17, a three point improvement over FY ‘14, while continuing to invest for long-term revenue growth. With the margin improvement results over the past two quarters, we are very confident in our ability to deliver on our margin expansion goals. Now turning to capital deployment. As previously guided, we are on track to return $500 million this year to shareholders in the form of dividends and buy backs. In Q3, we repurchased $99 million of stock, bringing our year-to-date repurchases to $267 million. With respect to guidance, we are reaffirming our previous FY 2015 EPS guidance of $1.68 to $1.72, as the operating model of the new Agilent continues to drive profitable growth and margin expansion. Thank you for being on the call today. I will now turn it over to Didier, who will provide additional details on our guidance and financial results. Didier?

Hirsch: Thank you, Mike, and hello, everyone. To recap the quarter, our core order and revenue growth, excluding the impact of currency, NMR, and acquisitions and divestitures were respectively 3% and 9%. This quarter, currency subtracted 6.9 percentage points from our year-over-year revenue growth. And as Mike stated, start-up issues with the transfer of U.S. distribution center were resolved in Q3, which resulted in about $15 million of additional revenue. Finally, adjusted operating margin was 19.9%, 160 basis points higher than our guidance and 110 basis points higher than last year on just 0.5% higher nominal revenues. Excluding the $40 million annual cost dis-synergies resulting from the Agilent/Keysight split, operating margin grew 210 basis points. I will now turn to the guidance for our fourth quarter. We expect Q4 revenues of $1.03 billion to $1.05 billion and EPS of $0.45 to $0.49. At midpoint, revenue will grow 6.7% on a core basis and our 20.3% adjusted operating margin at midpoint will be up 40 basis points sequentially. We expect to continue our disciplined buyback program with planned purchases of $98 million in Q4. Now to the guidance of fiscal year 2015. The Q4 guidance results in the following fiscal year guidance. At midpoint, revenue will grow 6.6% on a core basis, again, excluding the impact of currency, NMR, and acquisitions and divestitures. Fiscal year '15 revenue guidance is $37 million lower than previous guidance, of which $15 million is due to currency. Our EPS guidance of $1.70 at midpoint is unchanged from previous guidance, due to additional Agile Agilent savings that compensated for slightly lower revenues. Adjusted operating margin for the year is expected to be 19.2% or 40 basis points higher than last year. Excluding the impact of the $40 million cost dis-synergies related to the Agilent/Keysight split, our operating margin will be 140 basis points over previous year, on flat reported revenue growth.

Leonard: Thank you. I was hoping you could elaborate a bit on your book-to-bill. I think I’m calculating a 0.94, which is the lowest you’ve had in years.

Kaltenbach: Sure, Mike. Thanks. Yes, of course I kind of want to restate that you said here we had. In terms of your order pattern, order for LSAG, we had a slower start based on the very, very strong Q2. We had an also tough compare against last year where several of our big platforms have been 20% plus growth. Having said that, the pattern over Q3 was definitely accelerating through -- positively accelerating through Q3. And as you stated, the outlook for Q4 is positive. We see strong positive momentum in pharma where we have seen strong double-digit growth and we have no belief that momentum will slow down over the next couple of quarters. So given the confidence in our new platforms, which have been very well received, LCMS, and also latest introduction on the I

Schenkel: Okay. Thanks, Mike and Patrick. That’s all real helpful. And one quick follow-up. I apologize if I missed this. The $30 million in revenue delayed from Q2 and the Q3 or at least that you talked about on the Q2 call, does that fully come through this quarter or will some of that potentially come through in Q4?

Mullen: Didier has been quite today, so I think I will pass the call to have…

Hirsch: Yes. Back in Q2, we talked about the $30 million of being two parts. One part is the $15 million that was a clear miss from the change in the logistic center and we recovered that fully into Q3. The second part is about more of the new normal. What it means is that we have orders coming in later in the quarter and shipment terms being slightly extended versus what we’re used to. And this is really the new normal. So there was no recovery of that second $15 million and we don’t expect it to either to --

Peterson: Hey. Thanks. I understand the forward looking commentary here, but I just, think about the quarter on LSAG? Can you actually talk about what drove the 1% decline in core order growth? Where were you most surprise, I guess, relative to your own expectations?

Mullen: Thanks, Tycho. This is Mike. I am going to make a few comments and then, Patrick, I think, the question was the 1% order growth, where were the areas that we might have been surprise on. What I will do is, I will lead off and actually the order results for the quarter matched our own internal forecast. So we're really weren’t surprised, business developed as we had anticipated. And I think, maybe just kind of emphasizing a few comments would be, we saw some deal push-outs on the U.S. and state governments side, saw some continued flat levels of growth in the Chemical and Energy space. But just few other comments you like to add there, Patrick?

Kaltenbach: Sure, Mike. And the biggest surprise certainly for us was in the U.S. as you said, because we have seen the impact of both on the oil and chemistry side and a couple of delayed orders. On the positive side, Europe held up very nicely, as well as China was strong in growth. So in terms of platform to platform that have been affected most by the large delays, for example, LCMS, which had very tough compare compared to last year, where we had as we said plus 20% growth…

Peterson: And then, on DGG, 8% core growth is kind of at the high-end where you’ve talked about for market growth? Can you maybe just talk about the sustainability of trends and whether there is a little bit of catch up effect here now around the .

Minkova: Okay. Got you. So no change in the remainder of the end markets? It’s all about chemicals.

Minkova: Okay. Excellent. And separately, let me ask you, the $15 million of revenue, the help that you had from the revolution of your logistics center issues, was there any impact on margin on the operating margin expansion there?

Mullen: Great question. So, Didier, correct me if I’ve got my math wrong here. But in terms of the topline, we got everything through. The shipments are back to normal. The customers experience is just fine. But we have seen cost overruns relative to our expectations as we work through the operational issues and I think it's probably been to the tune of about $0.01 on

Hirsch: But besides that from the $15 million, it’s about kind of average, vouching for that piece although there is probably a little bit more of consumable for the little bit better operating margin at the average. But still that in itself, we had the operating leverage not much else. And then, this point that Mike was making that as we worked addressing the issues that we were facing logistics centers, we incurred close to $0.01 of additional cost in

Meehan: Yes. I just want to ask about some of commentary in the deck about the U.S. and state government deals getting pushed into 4Q. I was curios if you could give a little bit more commentary around that. And then just whether you thought any of the momentum in the academic and the market around and Congress around some improved funding, maybe that with impacting out there?

Kaltenbach: I can take this one, yes. Thanks Mike. So what we have seen in the first half, you’ve heard all the comments, we actually had a pretty healthy business in this market segment. In Q3, we saw kind of a pause where we have seen several of our larger accounts, actually took a pause and reassessed the budget for the remainder of the year and just delayed several deals. So, we don’t see these deals lost and we really anticipate that we will see in academic, government section, especially in

Meehan: Got it. Understood. And then, just one question on the gross margins in the CrossLab business. Just curious if you had any thoughts around the pricing dynamic there just given that the consumable piece of the business was doing quite well, I thought we might see a little bit more pull through on the gross margin line?

Doak: Sure. And Jack, in terms of the year-to-year comparable, once again it’s apples to oranges on the CrossLab business. And next year, you will be in a great position to ask me because it will be an apples-to-apples compare between the two. But the vast majority of the synergies are the spin and we did invest money to obviously take care of some logistics issues. So as Mike talked about some of the impacted earnings per share, a lot of that came through on our business. So overall though, I don't think we've seen near but frankly, we haven’t seen that much pressure on the ASPs at this point in time. Mike, I don’t know if you want to add any comments?

Mullen: Yeah. I think the ASPs, a really solid year and mainly and if you look at our prior year comparisons, it really been a story of the synergies and market picking up the load of the logistics center, cost overruns. And as you saw in our cost script, we are really investing heavily to bring out new chemistry products, which have some very nice margin structure associated with them.

Beuchaw: Hi, everyone. Thanks for taking the questions. I'll start with one, a bit of a retrospective for Mike. It has to do with sales force strategy. Mike, your several number months now into this area where you have consolidated sales forces. When you make a decision to consolidate the sales force, introduces a number of different possibilities. One is that you can be more nimble going after opportunities. Number two is of course, there can be disruptions. Can you reflect on that process, what you've seen and to the extent if you can, can you share any progress on metrics around that process?

Thaysen: All right, Steve. So, I will give you a little bit color without getting all the information about our underlying businesses here. But overall, the Dako businesses consist of few businesses. Two prime parts we have talked about is the pathology business and then our Companion Diagnostic business where the companion diagnostic is our partnering business with the pharma companies on developing new Companion Diagnostic within IHC and the FISH-based. And by the way, this is going very, very well and we will soon see the first significant launch of new Companion Diagnostic within a PLD-1 drug space. However, your questions around the pathology business and how we see that, I mean overall, we definitely see a good momentum. I will not say we are completely back in full scale yet. We did see some challenges last year on some back orders. We also have improved our performance on the Omnis over the last quarters, so we see actually all cylinders kick now. But it actually takes a few quarters to win deals in this space here. So, I would actually see continuous improvement over next few quarters. What we do see is that when we win deals, we of course win back. We win the deals that we -- in refresh of technology but we definitely also see a pickup in competitive deals as the Omnis solution is very competitive. And when you do that, when you put a new placement in, you will also get all the ranges running through that platform. So you place an instrument and then it takes another, maybe another quarter to get full loading of your consumables in there. So, I expect actually that we are in a good trajectory here.

Leone: Hi. Thank you for taking the questions. So can we just kind of clarify some of the commentary that’s been given so far on the organic growth expectations? Given from what you’ve said on the past, the previous questions, it seems like the weaker book-to-bill in the third quarter could have been, due to some of the weakness in the energy and chemical markets and that kind of flows through into the fourth quarter, or is it a function of something else? I guess when it comes down to, it doesn’t make -- it isn't completely apparent in terms of how the delayed orders would necessarily adversely affect the book-to-bill, but then there would be an ultimate catch-up to that? So, I guess, could you just kind of help us walk through, are the expectations purely oil and gas or is there something else in there that we need to think about for the fourth quarter specifically?

Mullen: Sure. Dane, I appreciate the opportunity to clarify some of the earlier comments. I think the relative to what we reporting to in our U.S. government side of the business, that a situation where normally we face on last year’s deal activity, we had Q3 business last year and what we saw was, as Patrick mentioned, that business is going to go from Q3 to Q4. So that’s one of the reasons why you had a drop in the book-to-bill. I think as we mentioned earlier too, we started off slow in the third quarter coming off a very strong close to Q2. We start off flow in May. We saw the pace of orders we just didn’t chance to close all the business in the third quarter. I really wouldn’t point to the chemical and energy beyond the fact that its just a continuation of what we have been seeing, which is basically no growth, three quarters in a row and I’m not going to call a recovery like I done earlier this year. So we’re just remained cautious on the implied industrial market both, the chemical and energy, as well as mining sector of our business.

Rodriguez: Thank you, Abigail. And thank you everybody for joining us on the call today. If you have any questions, please give us call on IR. And on behalf of all the management team, I’d like to wish you a good day.

Mullen: Thanks Alicia, and hello everyone. Thank you for joining us on today’s call. Our new Agilent team had a strong year. Let me start by highlighting our fourth quarter performance, focusing on three key numbers. First, revenue is up 6.2% on a core basis. Second, adjusted operating margin is up 150 basis points to 21.9%. Finally, EPS of $0.50 is above the high end of our guidance. Now I would like to talk about our full-year results. For the full-year, our core revenue is up 6.4%. It is worth noting that this is our highest annual core growth rate since 2011. Adjusted operating margin is up 80 basis points to 19.6% and EPS of $1.74 is above the midpoint of both our November 2014 and August 2015 guidance. We offset significant FX headwinds and $40 million of dis-synergies from the spin-off of our electronic measurement business. Our fourth quarter capped off a stellar performance by the team in our first year of the New Agilent. This team has not skipped a beat as we’ve navigated through a CEO transition, implemented a new strategy and dealt with changing market conditions. Both our fourth-quarter and full-year results demonstrate our commitment to drive both growth and operating margin expansion. Now let me move on to more details on what is going on within the business. Our Q4 results are driven by strength in the pharma, diagnostics, clinical and food markets. Geographically, we saw core growth across all regions, with particular strength in our liquid chromatography offerings, CrossLab services and consumables, and diagnostics and genomics products. Let me highlight the Q4 results by business group. The Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group delivered core revenue growth of 2%. Strong performance in Pharma was offset by softness in the industrial and academia & government markets. LSAG’s operating margin for the quarter was 20%, down 20 basis points from a year ago. In November, Agilent closed its acquisition of Seahorse Bioscience. Seahorse is a leader in providing instruments and assay kits for measuring cell metabolism and bioenergetics. Seahorse’s unique technology is the perfect complement to Agilent’s market-leading separations and mass spec solutions, in particular for metabolomics and disease research in pharma. The combination of these two platforms gives scientists a more comprehensive and faster path to researching some of the most challenging diseases affecting mankind. Seahorse will be incorporated into Agilent’s financials starting in the first fiscal quarter of 2016. In Q4, Agilent started shipping the new 1290 Infinity II Vialsampler, as well as the 600-bar 1260 Infinity version. At the BCEIA Conference in Beijing, we introduced the Agilent 5977B High-Efficiency Source GC/MSD System, a tandem gas chromatograph and mass spectrometer that delivers lower levels of detection than any other instrument in its class. We also introduced the 4200 TapeStation system. This fully automated instrument enables scientists to rapidly analyze up to 96 DNA samples at a time, and sets a new sample QC standard for next-gen sequencing; and we also launched several targeted solutions, such as our GC QTOF Pesticide Analysis Solution, and our LC QTOF Water Analysis System. Next, the Agilent CrossLab Group delivered another strong quarter, with core revenue growth of 11% in Q4. Both services and consumables experienced strong growth across all geographies. Operating margin was 25.1% for the quarter, up 150 basis points from a year ago. Customers are benefitting from ACG’s new brand promise to deliver insights that lead to outcomes. In Q4, Agilent University introduced an enhanced portfolio of online training courses. This enables customers from lab technicians to researchers, to develop new skills and gain insights that can improve economic, operational and scientific outcomes for their laboratories. The launch of the online training has exceeded our expectations. In consumables, we introduced a new product to help food-safety labs test high-fat samples more accurately. The Enhanced Matrix Removal-Lipid removes matrix interferences that have made test results challenging to reproduce. This gives food-safety labs a better way to address what has been one of their most challenging tasks. Finally, the Diagnostics and Genomics Group continued to build momentum in Q4, delivering 10% core revenue growth and strength across all of its businesses. Target enrichment was particularly strong, while Dako Omnis once again had record shipments and it continues to gain competitive wins. DGG’s operating margin for the quarter was 19.2%, up 430 basis points from a year ago. In the fourth quarter, two new diagnostics products from DGG received FDA approval. The first product was created in partnership with Merck & Co. This new companion diagnostic test can reveal whether a patient with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer is likely to respond to Merck’s anti-PD-1 therapy KEYTRUDA. The second product is our first complementary diagnostic developed in collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb. This new test can identify PD-L1 expression levels on the surface of non-small-cell lung cancer tumor cells, and provide information on the survival benefit with OPDIVO for patients with non-squamous, non-small-cell lung cancer. Now, let’s take a brief look at Agilent’s revenues by end-market performance on a core basis. Life sciences and diagnostics markets continue to see ongoing strength in the pharma, diagnostics and clinical markets, fueled by technology refresh deals, new product uptick and healthy demand across the spectrum. Spending in Academia & Government was down versus an extremely strong Q4,’14. Applied end-market performance was led by continued growth in food and environmental and chemical & energy were flat on a core basis. As we noted in our Q3 call, customers in the industrial markets continue to take a cautious stance, in light of weakening commodity prices and uncertainties in the world economy. Geographically, we saw core revenue growth across all regions led by the U.S. and Asia, excluding Japan. Now let me provide some additional insight on our operating margin improvement initiatives. Our multi-year Agile Agilent program launched in Q2 is re-engineering the company to be more nimble and efficient. In fiscal 2015 our actions delivered about $40 million in gross savings. In addition, the NMR closed resulted in $15 million in savings, and our Agilent Order fulfillment organization delivered on its $25 million committed savings. The Agile Agilent program and order fulfillment cost savings will be key drivers behind continued operating margin expansion. We remain on track to achieving a 22% operating margin by FY17, a 4 point improvement over FY14, exclusive of company split dis-synergies. At the same time we continue to invest in long-term revenue growth. Our results over the past three quarters give us confidence in our ability to deliver on this longer-term operating margin expansion commitment. We are pleased with the operational results for our first year as the New Agilent Technologies, and our ability to meet our external earnings commitments for the full year. Now I want to tell you about how we think about our guidance. We are committed to achieving our long-term financial goals. At the same time, we will be more conservative in our guidance. This is especially prudent due to macro-market concerns that have developed since I spoke with many of you at our May Analyst and Investor Day meeting. Before turning the call over to Didier, I want to recap a few highlights of our first year as the New Agilent Technologies. This was a transformational year for the company. We successfully completed the CEO transition. We formed a new executive leadership team that is deeply committed to delivering results. We have also implemented a new company strategy, restructured the company’s operations and product portfolio, and committed to new long-term financial goals. Despite all this change and moving pieces, we have delivered growth and increasing profitability over the past three quarters. Let me close with a few comments about the future. We are making acquisitions such as Cartagenia and Seahorse, expanding our presence in served life sciences and diagnostics markets. Our pipeline of new offerings has never been stronger. I am convinced we have an energized, aligned team at Agilent that will deliver on our full potential. I remain quite confident in our long-term prospects of above-market growth, increasing profitability levels, and greater shareholder value. Thank you for being on the call today. I will now turn it over to Didier, who will provide additional insights on our financial results and our

Hirsch: Thank you Mike and hello everyone. As Mike stated, we are very pleased with our Q4 and full-year performance. We delivered above-market core revenue growth of 6.2% and 6.4% respectively, and our operating margin adjusted for income from Keysight was 21.9% and 19.6% respectively. Excluding the $40 million annual cost dis-synergies resulting from the Keysight spinoff, our operating margin was up 240 basis points in Q4 and up 170 basis points for the full year. We are therefore well on our way to deliver on the committed 400 basis points improvement in adjusted operating margin by fiscal year ‘17. Our hedging strategy, consisting of both structural and systematic financial hedges was put to the test this year and delivered very well. Thanks to structural hedging stemming from our global footprint, flow-through was just 20% and we also gained $18 million from our systematic cash flow hedges. Turning to capital returns and cash flow for the year, we returned $400 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks and generated $491 million in operating cash flow. We did not repurchase stock in the fourth quarter, but we intend to repurchase this quarter, subject to customary conditions. I will now turn to the guidance for fiscal year 2016. Our fiscal year ‘16 revenue guidance of $4.15 billion to $4.17 billion corresponds to a core revenue growth of 4.0% to 4.5%. It is based on October 30 exchange rates and takes into account the Cartagenia and Seahorse acquisitions, as well as the XRD divestiture and NMR exit. We expect currency will have a 1.7% negative impact on revenues. Regarding XRD and NMR, fiscal year ‘15 revenues were $58 million and fiscal year ‘16 revenues are expected to be $12 million. We project fiscal year ‘16 EPS to range from $1.85 to $1.91, growing 6% to 10 %, based on an adjusted operating margin of 20.0% to 20.5%. You will notice that we are projecting a narrow revenue and EPS range at this time. We believe that 4.3% core revenue growth and 20.3% adjusted operating margin are the proper midpoints, taking into account both the present macroeconomic environment and our operating margin commitments. With those midpoints, we want to set the low end of our guidance in line with our commitments. Having set those at 4.0% core revenue growth and 20% adjusted operating margin, the high-end of the guidance naturally falls out at 4.5% core revenue growth and 20.5% adjusted operating margin. As you adjust your models for fiscal year ‘16, please consider the following nine points; first, annual salary increases will be effective December 1, 2015. Second, stock-based compensation will be about $57 million and as we front-load the recognition of stock-based compensation, the Q1 expense will be about $22 million. Depreciation is projected to be – that is the third point, depreciation is projected to be $100 million for the fiscal year. Fourth point, the non-GAAP effective tax rate is projected to be 20%. Fifth, we plan to return approximately $635 million in capital to shareholders, including $155 million in dividends and $480 million in buybacks, subject to customary conditions. Six, as communicated at the Analyst and Investor Day in May, we plan to borrow $250 million around February to fund a portion of our buyback program. Seven, net interest expense is forecasted at $68 million, and other income at $7 million, including $12 million billed to Keysight. Eight, for purpose of our EPS guidance, we have assumed a diluted share count of 328 million shares, 7 million less than the average diluted share count in fiscal year ’15. And ninth and last, we expect operating cash flow of $650 million and capital expenditures of $140 million, $42 million over fiscal year ‘15 as we embark on a two-year program to significantly increase the capacity of our nucleic acid facilities. Now, finally moving to the guidance for our first quarter. We expect Q1 revenues of $1 billion to $1.02 billion and EPS of $0.42 to $0.44. At midpoint, revenue will grow 3.5% year-over-year on a core basis, and EPS will grow 5%. As customary, Q1 EPS is negatively impacted by the December salary increase, the front-loading of stock-based compensation, and the increase in payroll taxes due to the disbursement of the variable and incentive pay of the previous semester.

Ro: Good afternoon, thanks very much. I think you guys mentioned in the script a couple of times the fact that you are taking a more conservative approach to guidance this year. So Mike, wondering if could just put a little more color around how your process around guidance has changed this year. Just want to get a better appreciation for what you guys are doing different when it comes to planning for guidance?

Mullen: Brandon, thanks. I’d love to take that call. It’s a great story and I think I’ll allow

Thaysen: Yes, thank you. So as you know our nuclear gases solution division is manufacturing oligos for active pharmaceutical ingredients and we have seen a significant demand for those products over the last few years and we continue to see demand that actually is beyond our current capacity, and therefore we’ve decided to invest in expanding that capacity over the next few years and this is actually what has been reflected in that buy.

Mullen: Brandon, this is Mike again. The beauty of this business is we will get long term customer commitments for purchase volumes and then you’ll start to see this show up in a very significant amount of revenue as you get in the outer years like ’17 and ’18 for the company.

Knight: Right, you have been through a few cycles yourself running that division. I mean what does the market feel like? You sense the bottom in some of these categories?

Mullen: Yes, I mean we think so. I mean customers are starting to talk about the new technologies and replacement, particularly as it relates to data systems and associated systems. Some of the customers are still fairly conservative. You know BASF was out with a downgrade in term of their outlook for ’16. But at the same point in time, the equipment is required to keep their facilities running at the highest levels of operational efficiency, so there is an active funnel.

Leonard: Thank you; two quick ones. One Didier, is there anything you would like to call out on the quarterly cadence in 2016 as we consider our models. I mean presumably Q3 is going to be a very difficult comparison. And then secondly for Jacob, is there any effort or plan to migrate a couple of these companion diagnostic approval to the ominous system. I looked like they were approved on your older

Broker): Okay. And then, maybe just staying in the BRIC region, any change in the way that you're thinking about Brazil and Russia and how that might end up this year?

Officer: Unfortunately, no. I think we're still looking for very challenged conditions in those countries. I know there's been some recent news today about Russia, and perhaps, working with some of the other oil-producing countries to change some aspects of production. Maybe they'll have some dynamics in terms of their economy, but right now, we're assuming continuation of the current challenged conditions for

Co.: Yeah. Mike, first question was on gross margin. There's pretty big year-on-year improvement there, and I was wondering if you can maybe break down the key drivers of gross margin performance. The extent to which there might have been one-time benefits and the extent to which there are some items that are going to continue as the year progresses.

Broker): Yeah. Thanks for the question. So question for Mike on Chemical & Energy. You were down 2% this quarter. The last couple of quarters you were down 9% or 10%. I guess, can you give us a sense for what's happening on the E&P side? You talked about stability on the refining side, but what are you seeing on the E&P side. It seems like that's what allowed the – I guess, the improvement relative to last couple of quarters.

Officer: Yeah. Actually, it's probably worth maybe just doing a little bridge on the last few quarters, because, in fact, we've seen relative flat performance over the last several quarters. And while instruments were down the percentage you were talking about, high-single-digits, we've seen a continuing ability to offset through services and consumables. So what I would say is that the Chemical & Energy market is sort of playing out the way we had expected for the year. So we wish we had a different story here, but the oil price is low as you know, but the product demand still remains pretty strong for our customers' products. So the refineries are running, the chemical plants are running, and then we're really trying to sell to them new equipment based on a productivity message, but at the same point in time, recognize that if they use the equipment longer, it's a good opportunity for us on the services and consumable side. One thing I would ask you to reflect on is that Q1 2015, as you dig into some of the numbers, Q1 2015 really was our best quarter for the whole year. I think we grew 3% in the first quarter of last year on a core basis. We ended up growing, I think, 1% for the whole year so that shows you were declining through the year. And so I wouldn't over-interpret the numbers. We think it's right in the range where we thought. And, Patrick, I don't know if you had any other comments you'd add to that? Patrick Kaltenbach -

Group: Well, no, not really. I think, as you said, it's playing out as we expected. There's continued pressure on the exploration side and production side. But for the refinery side, demand really drives. Also, replacement business for us, we try to incentivize our customers and give them opportunity to upgrade to increase their productivity and efficiency. And on the chemical side, I would say that the lower feedstock prices have not yet fully materialized. So we stay with focus for the year to – for the whole segment to stay flat.

Officer: I'm not sure exactly what you're referring to, but relative to our view is that gasoline will continue to be needed to run the economy, and there's going to be demand there. And what we've tried to share, as long as production is running and there's demand, the refineries will meet that demand. So we've seen no significant changes in the underlying demand for gas. And, in fact, Patrick, I think you were showing me some statistics the other day about what's going on in the area of refineries in the U.S. Patrick Kaltenbach -

Group: Yeah. I mean, what we see, as Mike said, is the continued demand for – not only in the U.S., but also in the emerging economies like China. So the refineries are basically running at capacity right now. There will be no new builds, but we see that they've replaced existing equipment, and they also go into service contracts with us. They look for opportunities to drive more efficiencies, which gives us an opportunity to upgrade the install base with automation features and other things to make sure that the customers can save money with the equipment as well. So the oil price is clearly driven by the fact that there's overcapacity on the production side. But the refinery volume has not gone down significantly over the last quarters.

C: Okay. And then, just lastly, can you talk about linearity in the quarter? Anything notable in January? You guys have an extra month versus a lot of your comps, so just wondering if there's anything worth calling out in January trends versus November and December?

Relations: All right. Thank you, everybody, for joining us on the call. And if you have any questions, please give us a call in IR. We'd like to wish you a good day, and

Mullen: Thanks, Alicia, and hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today's call. The Agilent team delivered another strong quarter for the Q2 revenue and earnings were above the high end of our guidance. Let me highlight three key results. First, revenue growth was up over 8% on a core basis. Second, we delivered adjusted operating margin of 19.4% an increase of 110 basis points from a year ago. Finally, EPS of $0.44 was up 16% over last year. Before moving on to a view of our Q2 results, I do want to address our year-over-year quarterly comparisons which reflect the unusual event from last year of 8% core growth that we're announcing today about 1.5 percentage points is due to our shift of our revenue last year from Q2 '15 into Q3 '15. In the second quarter year ago, we experienced $50million of shipment delays due to startup challenges with our new U.S. logistic center. In addition, our process improvement efforts over the past two quarters to convert our incoming orders more quickly to revenue have paid-off. We have reduced our order to revenue cycle times particularly in China. Consequently some shipments initially forecasted for Q3 of this year were delivered in Q2. Agilent's strong Q2 results were led by double digit core growth in pharma and food markets. We also experienced continued strength in Academia & Government, Environmental and Diagnostic and Clinical Markets. All end markets grew except Chemical & Energy. Growth was broad based across our most of our portfolios. Geographically all regions grew except Japan led by very strong growth in China. Let me highlight our Q2 results by business group. The Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group delivered core revenue growth of 8% led by strong demand in the pharma and food markets. About three percentage points of the 8% increase was thanks to a softer compare due to the timing issues mentioned earlier from last year's U.S. logistic centre startup. A combination of strong topline growth, expense management and growth margin improvements partially due to the NMR exit drove LSAG's operating margin to 19%, up 320 basis points from a year ago. LSAG continues to strength this portfolio in Q2 as it introduced VistaFlux software. This new software speeds up clinical research data analysis, so scientists can more quickly understand the underlying causes of diseases such as cancer. VistaFlux strengthens Agilent’s leadership decision in metabolomics. Last week we announced a new Agilent 1260, infinity-II LC at the analytical trade show. This instrument provides best-in-class lab efficiency and improves the formats of full backward compatibility. Next, the Agilent CrossLab Group continued to deliver consistently strong revenue results. Core revenue growth in Q2 was 10% led by strength in contract services, LC columns and lab supplies. Expansion and penetration in Asia continued to be the strong contributors to our growth. Operating margin was flat versus year ago at 21.5%.CrossLab represents a strategic transformation of our services and consumables business. I’m pleased to report that Agilent was recognized with 2016 Reviewers Choice award for customer service. This award is from Select Science, an independent expert led scientific review. This is the second year in a row, that scientists in North America have judged Agilent's customer service to be the best in the Laboratory products industry. Finally the Diagnostics and Genomics Group delivered 5% core growth in Q2 against a difficult compare. The pathology business continues on its steady trajectory back to market growth rates., highlighted by the strong demand for our new PD-L1companion and complimentary diagnostic tests. Genomics showed strong market performance led by our SureSelect Target Enrichment and our Array CGH offerings. DGG's operating margin was flat versus year ago at 15%. In Q2 Agilent announced an $80million investment in Lasergen, an emerging biotechnology company with innovative next-gen sequencing technology. Our two companies will collaborate on building an NGS workflow for clinical applications. In Q2, Agilent also announced the commercial availability has expanded to the EU for a new PD-L1diagnostic test for non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer. This diagnostic was developed through a collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb, the maker of OPDIVO. Now, I’ll provide an overview of Agilent's core revenues by end market. Life Sciences and Diagnostics markets saw a continuation of our first quarter performance with strength across all end markets. Pharma grew 14% fueled by technology research deals, new product uptick, and sustained growth in the aftermarket. This is the fifth consecutive quarter of greater than mid to high double digit growth in pharma. Academia & Government grew 7% driven by strong demand in China and an uptick in the U.S. Clinical diagnostics also grew 7% with strength in genomics led by target enrichment in Array CGH. Applied end market performance was mixed. Flu was up 25% with strong sales in China and the Americas. China also drove 6% worldwide growth in environmental forensics. Chemical energy declined 3%, reflecting continued macroeconomic concerns and the effects of lower oil prices. Now, I’d turn to an update on our operating margin improvement initiative. Q2 marks the fifth consecutive quarter of year-over-year operating margin improvement delivered by the new Agilent team. This will resolve our ability to outgrow the market while driving operational efficiency improvements. Our multi-year Agile Agilent program continues to simplify the company, making us more nimble and lowering our cost. Our execution of companywide streamline of organizations, processes, and systems continues to be on track to deliver incremental saving in 2017. For example, in Q3, we will take a major step forward in simplifying the company's system infrastructure with all of our financial systems now on SAP. On the capital deployment front, we paid $37 million in dividends, repurchased $94 million of Agilent stock and invested 80 million to enable our NGS workflow strategy. Finally, our one Agilent initiative driving was well-received cultural transformation to improve cost company collaboration and delivering of results. At last year's Analyst and Investor Day described a shareholder value creation model for Agilent to be driven by outgrowing the market, expanding operating margins and a balanced capital allocation policy. I'd like to take a minute to position the Q2 results in the context of our longer term goals. After delivering our highest annual core revenue growth in 2011 of 6.4% in 2015, we’ve now had two strong quarters to start 2016 including this quarter's 8% core revenue growth. Since the new Agilent leadership team has put in place, the team has delivered year-over-year operating margin improvements every quarter. We’ve completed the offset the initial $40 million into synergies from the Company's split. In fiscal 2015, we returned $400 million to shareholders and $370 million year-to-date in 2016 through cash dividends and share repurchase. From 2015 onto now, we’ve also invested our 400 million in new business via M&A and equity investments. Didier will share more specifics later while we are raising our full year 2016 outlook for core growth, operating margin, EPS, and cash flow. Let me now talk about our second half '16 forecast in light of what we’ve already achieved in 2016 and what we plan to deliver in 2017. We look at today's overall market environment while we face increasingly tough competitors, we expect strength and pharma are continuing the second half of 2016 and into 2017. China is also expected to remain strong in second half of 2016 and 2017. Taking a closer look at the chemical and energy market, we’ve been experiencing a more prolong and steeper slowdown than initially anticipated. We are now forecasting overall low single digit market declines for the year versus our initial flat guidance assumptions. The oil exploration segment of this market has been down significantly for some time with a recent well reported spill over into the refining segment. There are initial indications however of a bottoming with increased deal activity in the large chemical segment of the market. We have projected an improved chemical and energy market environment in 2017. We are assuming we will continue to face headwinds in this market for the remainder of 2016. We are currently modeling 2017 with an above market core revenue growth of 4.5%. This is in line with our projected full year 2016 core growth rates, but higher than our expected core growth rate in the second half of 2016. There are two reasons for this increase. First, we expect to have a very strong new product introduction in the second half of FY '16 which will drive revenue growth in FY 17. Second, on the end market front, we expect chemical energy to have bottomed out by year end, accompanied by continuing solid conditions and all of our other end markets and in China. Overall, we remain on track with your 2017 goal to outgrow the market and improve our operating margins to 22%. Looking inside the company, I can share with you today that the one Agilent team is working well together and is driven to win in the marketplace. I look forward to seeing many of you at our Analyst and Investor Day where I will share our progress versus our commitments. How we will sustain our improved performance and the longer term outlook for the company. Thank you for being on the call today. I will now turn it over to Didier who will provide additional insights on our financial results and guidance for the third quarter and full year 2016. Didier?

Hirsch: Thank you Mike and hello everyone. As Mike stated, we delivered a strong performance this quarter again. 8% core revenue growth, 110 basis points of operating margin expansion and $256 million in operating cash flow. After adjusting for last year’s $15 million slippage in revenue from Q2 to Q3 as we launched our new U.S. logistic center, our core revenue growth of 6.5% remained well above market. During the quarter, we bought back $94 million of stock and paid $37 million in dividends. Finally, on May 3, we successfully moved all finance applications from Oracle to SAP which is our main ERP. This will result in significant simplifications of our finance and IT operations. I’ll now turn to the guidance for our third quarter. We expect Q3 revenues of $1.03 billion to $1.05 billion and EPS of $0.45 to $0.47. At mid-point, revenue will grow 1.3% on a core basis, or close to 3% adjusting for last year’s $15 million impact from the U.S. logistics center. And turning to share repurchase, we expect to buy back $93 million this Q3. Now, to the guidance of fiscal year 2016. We are raising the mid-point of our revenue guidance by $60 million including $50 million due to currencies. As a result, we are increasing our core revenue growth guidance at mid-point from 4.25% to 4.50%. We are also raising the mid-point of our EPS guidance by $0.06 including $0.03 coming from currency and $0.03 from operational performance. And one important note. After further review, we and our auditors have concluded to account for the Lasergen investment using the cost method account. This means that we will not book our share Lasergen losses as previously communicated. Finally, we are raising our operating cash flow guidance from $650 million to $740 million and there is no change to our CapEx guidance of $140 million. With that, I’ll turn it over to

Leonard: Thank you. Two questions. First off, can you elaborate on the business trends you're seeing in Europe? And then secondly on the pharma end market, can you talk about what gives you confidence in the fiscal '17 outlook that you have yet another strong year in pharma, following two years then of tough comps in capital markets, which have been more or less shut?

Groberg: Congratulations on another great quarter, Mike. Can you maybe elaborate a little on - I think you said core guidance, and if I'm looking at your presentation, core revenue growth guidance in the third quarter is pretty precise at 1.3%. I think I just heard that you still expect pharma to grow low double digits. Could you give a little insight as to what you're seeing in the third quarter?

Mullen: Yes, what we looked at was what's our growth rate that we've had over the first half of this year and as we look into Q3 and Q4. And what I'd point to is a couple of things, Jonathan first of all tough compares and this is inclusive of a few one-time moves between quarters which actually were driven by improvements overall operation, so as Didier mentioned we had this $50 million shift in Q2 of last year into Q3 - which when we had our start up issues of the new logistics center. So we adjust for that to catch-up about 3% growth. The other thing we saw happen in Q2 was we’ve been working really hard to improve the overall cycle time from the time a customer places order to actually install and we can recognize a revenue. In Q2 we actually see their expectations and we got there a lot faster we had thought. And what that meant was, we had a significant amount of revenue probably $20 million to $25 million that came from Q3 into Q2 where initially had forecasted into the third quarter. On all of you kind of take into account those things you've got put in more of a consistent kind of a growth scenario between Q2 and Q3. I would tell you though the chemical and energy is still looking for a bottom and that's why we have that outlook for the year which basically this down it will stay down for the rest of the year. There are some signs that it could be getting better. But we have not convinced yet we've seen the bottom chemical and energy. So I think the combination of those tough compares as well as our outlook on chemical and energy is what's driving the overall guidance for the second half.

Groberg: Okay. That's helpful. And then, I guess just one more. Are there any - sometimes when we see shifts onto one platform, like Oracle to SAP, is there anything at all, any wiggle room you've left there, in terms of hiccups in the quarter, or maybe just --?

Meehan: Hi thanks. Good afternoon guys. I just wanted to start, the better - at least relative to what I was looking for, looked like you had better gross margins in the LSAG segment, now two quarters in a row. Can you just talk about what some of the notable changes there are? Is there anything with product mix that's driven the improvement, or do you think this is the new norm to look for?

Mullen: Let me make some initial comments and then Didier or Patrick you can add – build to it. So in terms of product mix, part of what you're seeing is the fact that we are winding down through our P&L the impact of the NMR business, and I think you can see the benefit of that exit decision on the P&L because it really has been contributing to the - improved the gross margins. That's not the whole story. The other story is obviously the strong demand for the products and the volume benefits we're getting, as well as the focus on taking cost out of our material cost side of our business as well as we talk a lot about the logistics last year, we can also talk about logistics this year, which is we're doing a much better job in terms of overall logistics operations that's blowing through on the P&L as well. So Didier I'm not sure if I missed anything else. A –

Meehan: Great. And then just one more for the adoption of the companion diagnostics, now a few quarters into the launch. Are you in a position, could you maybe help us size what that business is today, or just in the market, what you think you hold in terms of market share?

Ro: Good afternoon, thank you. I had a question on margins, as well. On the gross margin side, I was curious if we should expect maybe another wave of improvement, now that you have the ERP integration done. And on the op margin side, curious how satisfied you are with the sales force realignment, and whether or not there's still more synergies to be had there as well?

Mullen: Yes, a couple of comments here then I’ll hand that over to Didier in a case like to add a few things here. But in terms of the sales force integration and go to market we couldn't be happier I mean that was a major move made last year where we basically went from five sales force into sales forces one focused on the analytical laboratory marketplace and other one focused on the regulated diagnostic marketplace. As the time I remember sharing with you, hey we're making a big change here and it could affect the top line in the short one that didn't happen. And in fact I submit that as we go out into 2016 and 2017 we're now putting more resources of specialization academia in biopharma, so I think you can see the changes paying off in terms of long term growth. So we're really happy with both the fact that we've got it all behind us and settle down and think it started to pay off on the initial benefits of in vision when we created that structure. Relative to gross margin ERP I just keep in mind that what we've been talking about is a financial systems which really go into the SG&A line so it really won't affect the gross margin. That being said we do think we can do more on gross margins as we move forward in 2016 and 2017. I'll talk a little bit more about in detail next week in New York but as you may know our initial 400 basis points improvement when I came on board we said half a come through OpEx and other operational costs and then others through grow in the growth piece of the a lot of the driven by our ability to capture the gross margin improvements on increase volume. So we think we still have room to improve our material cost. And we think that we've got room to continue to bring down our logistics cost.

Ro: That's very helpful. Maybe just a follow-up, just to clarify on two topics, one on biopharma, and the other one on the comments you made around China. On biopharma, could you just compare the growth rates you're seeing in the QA/QC setting versus R&D, and then in China, just curious, how much of your improved outlook there is based on the visibility you have with government funding versus end markets that are more on the private industry side?

Shankle: Hi good afternoon. Mike, I want to go back to some of the comments you made, on efforts to tighten cycle times from order to revenue, which seemed to be yielding benefits sooner than expected, particularly in China. Can you provide a bit more background on this effort, and why it was most impactful in China? And then maybe talk about similar efforts under way in other geographies? And relatedly, you positioned these, in answering some questions, as if they were temporary. At least it seems like your guidance doesn't treat these as sustainable improvements, yet everything else you said suggests that these are truly sustainable improvements. So I was just hoping you could help us understand that a little bit better.

Mullen: Yes, sure Doug, I really appreciate the question. And maybe may start with the last part of your question which is the takeaway here we do believe this is a sustainable improvement, so in my mind the language I use this is the new normal in terms of ability to convert orders to revenue. And so I would characterize this is new normal how we're going operate so how do we get here and why did they look so significantly different in China, so first of all starts with looking at the entire process from an end to end customer perspective from the time of order placement of shipment into custom installation occurs. And as you know when I restructure the company I was really trying to break down the silos and we had a very siloed or an approach to this end to end process from a customer respective, in the company we looked at each slice of the process, but nobody looking at the collective process and then you start doing that and you start seeing where the issues are the opportunities are so we found ways to improve our order linearity, we’ve improved the quality of booked orders and this really gets to your question about China often you're dealing with letters or credit issues and then other trade issues that in the past have delayed our ability to actually book them as clean orders and turn them into revenue. We call the delivery box, we've been working on making sure we had material availability. I think we hit one of our best quarters ever in terms of having material ready for all our shipments so we improve our ability to get in orders in a linear fashion. Make sure those orders are clean and not have lot of rework. And then we have improved our delivery performance and then spent a lot of time improving our efforts between shipment installation which sometimes can go on for several weeks. So I think it all starts with this looking at the whole process from an end to end perspective and the result has been a significant improvement in a cycle in orders turned into revenue more quickly than in the past. I do think this represents our new way of operating and again as I mentioned in my remarks it did create some, it did have implications of how we guide the company for the second and third quarter but I think we’re delighted to be able to actually have ongoing strong operational efficient improvement in place so, that we know how to predict revenue even better in the future.

Shankle: Okay. That's really helpful, Mike. But just to be really clear, recognizing these are well-learned sustainable improvements, it's not apparent that this is fully - these improvements, the sustainability is fully reflected in guidance? If that's the case, is that just because you want to see this play out for a couple of quarters before you start baking it in?

Minkova: Yes, hi good afternoon guys. Congratulations on the quarter. Maybe if I could focus on operating margins again for a second. Just help us, remind us, there's a lot going on there, in terms of the programs you have in place and improvements you have going on. Help us, remind us, the bridge between fiscal '16 and fiscal '17, what gets you to the 22% operating margin? A –

Mullen: But what I can share with you conceptually is that we will be continuing and completing off the integration of the Darko acquisition. We have a series of operational programs we talked to about one of those already which is the implications of the ERP and the continued focus on gross margin for its specifically material cost reductions in logistics savings. So, I think that combination of those three factors plus with the overall core growth assumption that will currently model around 4.5 get us to the 22.

Minkova: Okay, great. And the strength in the food market, was this all China, or are you seeing strength elsewhere as well? A –

Mullen: Thanks, Alicia, and hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today's call. I'm pleased to report that the Agilent team delivered another quarter above expectations.

Now let me highlight 3 key results: First, core -- Q3 core revenue growth of 3% was above the high end of our May guidance. Second, EPS of $0.49 was also above the high end of our guidance of $0.45 to $0.47. Finally, we delivered adjusted operating margin of 20.6%, an increase of 70 basis points from a year ago. As for the third quarter results echo many of the same themes that we saw last quarter, the pharma, food, clinical and diagnostics end markets remain strong. In the chemical and energy market, while demand for our services and consumables was strong, capital expenditures for new equipment purchases remain challenged. Geographically, Asia, led by China's double-digit growth, drove Agilent third quarter core growth with strength across all business segments. Let me highlight our Q3 results by business group. In line with our expectations, Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group core revenues were down 2%. Our strong growth in pharma, environmental and food markets was offset by continued weakness in chemical and energy capital expenditures. Academia and government revenues were also down across most regions. Despite this mixed market environment, LSAG's operating margin for the quarter was 19.1%, up 40 basis points from a year ago. Let me shift gears and talk about some of LSAG's new products. We are seeing very strong demand, the newly released 1260 and the 1290 Infinity II LC systems. The 1260 systems are part of the launch of the InfinityLab portfolio at Analytica in May. The InfinityLab portfolio consists of this new line of LC instruments along with columns, supplies and services. In Q3, LSAG also introduced the new -- 2 new 7000 Series Triple Quad GC/MS analyzers, one for pesticides and another for environmental pollutants. And we continue to strengthen our ICP-MS market leadership with the new Agilent 8900 Triple Quad ICP-MS system. This new system offers customers improved speed and accuracy of analysis. Turning to the Agilent CrossLab Group. The business delivered another strong quarter with 8% core revenue growth. This growth is driven by strength in the food, pharma and environmental markets. ACG's operating margin for the quarter was 22.7%, up 10 basis points from a year ago. Portfolio expansion efforts also continued in ACG. In Q3, Agilent signed a definitive agreement to acquire the assets of iLab, and we just closed the transaction in early August. iLab is the market leader in cloud-based solutions for core laboratory management and provide services to leading universities, research hospitals and independent institutions around the world. This acquisition further expands Agilent's portfolio in the academia and government market. iLab enables Agilent to deliver broader value for our customers in this market segment. We also see an opportunity to expand the iLab business both geographically and into the pharma market. Finally, we saw a continued momentum in the Diagnostics and Genomics Group where the business delivered 8% core growth in Q3. We saw strength across all DGG businesses, driven by growth in the pharma and clinical and diagnostics market. Our pathology business continues on a steady trajectory of improved growth. This was highlighted by demand for our new PD-L1 companion diagnostics. Growth in genomics reflect a strong market performance in the U.S. and China across our Array CGH, Target Enrichment and SureSelect products. We also saw healthy demand for our Nucleic Acid Solutions offering. DGG's operating margin for the quarter was 18.8%, up 200 basis points from a year ago. Q3 highlights for DGG include the announcement of an expansion of the intended use of our PD-L1 pharmDX test in Europe for patients with melanoma. This test was previously proven in the U.S. and available in Europe for patients with non-squamous, non-small-cell lung cancer and in the U.S. with patients -- for patients with melanoma. We also announced a $120 million investment over the next 3 years to expand production capacity for our Nucleic Acid Solutions business. This includes the purchase of 20 acres of land in Colorado. We plan to build our factory on this land that will double our manufacturing capacity for nucleic acid active pharmaceutical ingredients and grow our business. Now I'll provide an overview of Agilent's core revenues by end market. In our life sciences market, pharma saw its sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth with core revenue up 10%. Academia and government core revenues were down 5%, down across most geographies except China. Clinical and diagnostics grew 4% with strength in North America and Asia and led by growth in pathology. Applied end-market performance was mixed. Food was up 11% with strong demand in China and the Americas. These regions also drove growth in environmental market for both instruments and aftermarket products. This performance was offset by continued challenges in the chemical and energy market, down 4% globally, with only Asia posting growth on a regional basis. The overall result was due to prolonged effects of the macroeconomic concerns and lower oil prices. Now I'll turn an update on our operating margin improvement initiatives. Q3 marked a major step forward in simplifying our company's infrastructure. In May, we completed the migration of the company's financial systems onto a single SAP platform. This was a culmination of a 20-month cross-company effort and represents a major step in simplifying Agilent's systems infrastructure that will deliver incremental cost savings as planned in fiscal 2017. In summary, our multiyear Agile Agilent program continues to simplify the company's business processes. This program is designed to make us more nimble and lower our costs. It will continue to deliver incremental savings in 2017. On the capital deployment front, we purchased iLab, paid $37 million in dividends and repurchased $94 million of Agilent stock. We continue to deliver on our strategy to drive sustainable growth while expanding operating margins and balancing deployment of our capital to drive shareholder value creation. At our recent

I described our shareholder value creation model: outgrow the market, expand operating margins, balance capital deployment. Let's look at our Q3 results in the context of these longer-term goals and shareholder value creation model. In 2015, we delivered our highest annual growth rate in 4 years while increasing adjusted operating margin 170 basis points and completely offsetting the $40 million of dissynergies from the company split. We have sustained this trajectory of improved operating results in fiscal 2016. In the first 3 quarters of 2016, the team has delivered strong growth and earnings above our initial expectation despite a challenging chemical and energy market environment and global macroeconomic concerns. We have continued to leverage our balance sheet and deployed capital in a balanced manner, buying companies that bring new capabilities to Agilent while repurchasing our stock and increasing cash dividends. The new leadership team continues to transform the business and deliver results. We continue to demonstrate our ability to deliver above-industry organic growth while expanding margins and leveraging our balance sheet strength. Our Q3 results in a challenging global economic environment reflect the strength of our team combined with Agilent's scale and broad differentiated portfolio of products and services. Looking at today's overall market environment, we expect continued strength in pharma, along with growth in the food, environmental and clinical research and diagnostics markets and in China on a regional basis. As I highlighted in our last call, we are experiencing a steeper and more prolonged slowdown in the chemical and energy market than initially projected entering fiscal 2016. We subsequently revised our forecast for this market segment last quarter to overall low single-digit market declines for the year. While there are some signs of an impending bottom in the market, we remain cautious in our outlook and expect Q4 to be in a similar range as the past quarter. Against this market drop (sic) , we are well positioned to capture growth in these end-market segments and geographies where growth is expected to remain strong. The combination of our expanding our customer channel reach and continual strengthening of our portfolio positions us well to achieve our previously raised full year guidance of 2016 and our longer-term goals. Our One Agilent team continues to work well together and is energized to win in the market. Overall, we remain on track with our 2017 goal to outgrow the market and improve our operating margin to 22%. Thank you for being on the call today. I will now turn it over to Didier who will provide additional insights on our financial results and guidance for the remainder of 2016. Didier?

Evans: This one's for Didier. It seems like cash flow is something that's going better than expectations or better than our expectations at least. Wondered if you could talk a little bit about the remaining levers that you have to pull on that as you go into 2017. Do you think that free cash flow growth in 2017 is really just going to be a matter of earnings growth? Or is there more than you can do there to improve free cash flow faster than earnings?

Hirsch: Yes. There is more that we can do. Certainly, the profit before tax is going to be a factor. But Henrik, who heads our order fulfillment and the supply chain organization has also committed to a material decrease in inventories.

Hirsch: So that is also something that we are counting on that will help us continue expanding our operating cash flow as a percentage of revenue or percentage of profits.

Ro: Yes. Over the last, I don't know, 12 or 18 months, you guys talked a lot about some of the things you're doing to drive gross margin higher. This particular quarter, you had a little weakness in your most profitable segment. So I'm wondering kind of, aside from just the top line contribution, what you guys were able to achieve this quarter on the gross margin line that allowed you to put up a slightly better result.

Mullen: Great, great. Thanks for the question. So what we've been focusing on are really 3 dimensions around what we call our value-engineering program, our logistics model and also our strategic procurement approach with our suppliers. And as I look at the results in '16, the program that Henrik is driving across this company, I think we probably have seen the biggest impact so far in our improved logistics model. And you may recall we talked about logistics costs as being problematic in 2015. That's no longer the case. In fact, we've benchmarked ourselves, and we've got ourselves down to the best in our space. And there actually is more to come, which is the other 2 elements of the program have a little bit more longer tail in terms of payoff, which is value engineering, when you're reengineering product platforms to ensure both the continuation of the high performance but at a lower cost. And then as we also continue to transform our supplier engagement model and how we leverage the scale of Agilent. So I think those latter 2 parts of the program are going to carry us forward into '17 and '18 beyond, so I think that's how we're really working the gross margin side. And by the way, I also of your comments were focused on LSAG. A lot of logistics costs and some of these other factors I mentioned, procurement, show up as impacts on the DDG and ACG business as well. And then relative to the SG&A, a couple of things that you may recall I highlighted in New York and I just reemphasize again, major focus on our systems infrastructure. So as you heard in my prepared remarks, we're now on one SAP instance, simplifying a lot of our work for our financial team and taking a lot of cost out of the system. The next big wave will be when we move the former Dako company into the Agilent environment in 2017 where we can really start to leverage the scale and take out costs and have an improved customer experience there. So there's a couple of big initiatives as well as we look at -- we're looking at other aspects of our benefit structure as we made some change, as you may know, earlier to our U.S. pension plan and the Agile Agilent program I mentioned is live. And we have a lot of initiatives underway to ensure that we can continue to take costs out while simplifying the company. Didier, anything else you would add to that?

Hirsch: I'd just mention the currency hedging. It had a big impact. It will have a big impact on a year-over-year basis. It's all impacts to gross margin. And ACG and DGG, because of their footprint, have been more penalized. So ACG on a year-over-year basis lost $6 million in gross margin just because of the hedging programs; and DGG, $2 million. So that also explains the difference between ACG, DGG and LSAG. LSAG has a different footprint, obviously with a stronger presence in Europe, for example.

Arias: Patrick, just going back to your comments on share gains in LC. I know you guys don't like to get too specific on winners and losers. But as was mentioned, it does look like all of the major players are doing fairly well there. So who would you say you're taking share from? Is it the small column providers or does that actually extend into some of the box companies as well?

Kaltenbach: Well, I -- thanks for the question. I can give you only a general flavor here on what we think is going on in the market. I will not comment on the individual competitors, but your assumption that the smaller suppliers probably take a larger hit is also our observation.

Arias: Okay. And then maybe a specific one on C&E. Mike, at the Analyst Day, you called out a Saudi Arabian refinery build-out that was getting going. Have you started to see some demand there? And is that something that you think contributes at all to the back half of the year?

Mullen: The major projects that were underway haven't been canceled, so -- but we're not seeing any major new projects underway. There's a lot of -- there's actually a lot of positive news by a lot of studies about where this market's going, but we're not seeing -- what we're -- just to clarify here, the major project that we knew about, whether it be the one I mentioned in Saudi or the -- there's a major project down in Texas. These programs, they're going to come online. So people aren't canceling capacity increase projects, but we're not seeing a lot of new projects. And that's why we have taken a fairly conservative -- probably be a bit pragmatic view of that marketplace. Again, I would remind everybody, too, that when we talk about chemical and energy, 50% or so is actually chemicals -- chemical processing not directly tied to the exploration and production of oil.

Knight: I guess specifically what is the GC business doing? What's its growth rate? What was it doing in the July quarter? And what's the backlog or what are the -- what's July or August look like, I guess?

Rodriguez: Thank you, Jonathan. And on behalf of the entire management team, I'd like to thank everybody for joining us today. If you have any questions, please give us a call at

Mullen: Thanks, Alicia, and hello, everyone. I'm very pleased to announce that our Agilent team ended 2016 with another strong quarter of excellent results. I will start by looking at our key numbers from the quarter. First, we continued to deliver above-market growth. Revenues of $1.1 billion exceeded the high end of the guidance by a sizeable $41 million and were up 6.3% on a core basis. We were the first surprised by the strength of our instrument business in pharma, China and Europe, which far exceeded our expectations. Second, our adjusted EPS of $0.59 was $0.07 above the high end of our guidance. Finally, we continued our track record of improving profitability as we delivered another quarter of operating margin expansion. Adjusted operating margin of 22.5% was up 60 basis points from Q4 of fiscal 2015. Turning to our full year results. Core revenue continued to outperform the market, growing 5.9%. We increased operating margins 110 basis points to 20.7% from 2015. These results drove a 14% increase in adjusted earnings per share for the full year. We are capping off the second year of our company transformation with stellar performance by the Agilent team. Our fourth quarter and full year results demonstrate our continued ability to win in the market. We are outgrowing the market while expanding margins and fully leveraging our strong balance sheet. In the past year, we distributed $150 million in cash dividends, repurchased $434 million of our shares and invested $480 million directly into the business through M&A, strategic transactions and capital expenditures. Let me now address what's happening in our end markets and business groups. I'll start with the end markets. Our Q4 trends were similar to what we experienced last quarter with pharma and academia and government being the exceptions. We had expected continued strength in pharma, but our 16% growth on a difficult compare exceeded our expectations. Growth is being driven by strong customer acceptance of our new products and enterprise service offerings. Academia and government's decline of 2% was less than expected. European spending is holding up better than projected, while our U.S. government investments continue to lag 2015 spending levels. Clinical and diagnostics grew 8% over last year, led by continued growth in reagents. Within our applied end markets, food is up 10% with strong demand in China and Americas. China also drove growth in environmental market, up 3%. Chemical and energy declined 3% in line with expectations due to continued effect of crude oil prices and macroeconomic uncertainties. We expect this market to remain challenging for the rest of calendar year 2016 and into 2017, with no significant downward or upward movements. Geographically, Asia, led by China, and Europe were stronger than forecast. Our Asia business, excluding Japan, grew double digit, driven by greater than 25% growth in China. While the overall European market remains challenged, we delivered solid mid-single-digit growth. European pharma and food markets were strong and academia and government funding was stable with Q3. Japan and Americas were flat with growth constrained by continued chemical and energy market weakness and specific to the U.S., slow U.S. government funding. Moving on to the business groups. Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group delivered core revenue growth of 5%. Better-than-expected revenues from our analytical lab instruments business was driven by an attractive combination of introducing new products into growing markets. This applied in particular to our new lineup of chromatography and mass spectrometry products targeted at the pharma in applied food, environmental and forensics markets. LSAG's operating margin for the quarter was 22.8%, up 280 basis points from a year ago. We are building for the future. In August, we introduced the transformational Intuvo 9000 GC system. Building on our recognized GC leadership, the Intuvo system revolutionized the way users perform gas chromatography. Industry experts recognize unique innovation being delivered by Agilent with press coverage at 100% positive. Intuvo is featured this month on the cover LCGC magazine, a major trade publication. Customer response is also very positive to this introduction, confirming our undisputed market leadership in gas chromatography. We anticipate a measured uptake in revenue. Limited international shipments are expected in Q1 of fiscal 2017, with volumes expected to increase over subsequent quarters. Another industry-unique product, the Agilent 8900 Triple Quad ICP-MS system, which we just introduced in Q3, is also being well received in the market. This instrument is rapidly becoming the solution of choice in labs that demand the highest standards of performance. Next, the Agilent CrossLab Group continues to deliver strong, sustained growth with core revenue up 8%. Growth is healthy in both services and consumables. ACG's operating margin for the quarter was 22.7%, down 240 basis points from a year ago and in line with expectations. ACG results were driven by strong pharma, food, clinical and diagnostic markets, where our CrossLab customer value proposition is being well received. Unlike our instrument business, ACG also grew in the chemical and energy markets. Laboratories supporting strong production levels drove demand for consumables. There is also continued demand for services, as customers focus on keeping their older instruments operational. We are investing for the future in ACG. We just introduced a new range of innovative and differentiated supplies. These new offerings enable the Agilent Intuvo 9000 GC to be the most efficient and cost-effective premium GC to own and operate. We continue to successfully integrate the recently acquired iLab business, which brings differentiated capabilities to core lab managers. Last, but certainly not least in terms of impact, the momentum in the Diagnostics and Genomics Group continued, with delivery of 8% core growth. Our laser focus on improving the previously acquired Dako business is paying off. The pathology business continues its steady climb back to market growth rates, with strong -- with strength in reagents and companion diagnostics. Our nucleic acid solutions business, for which we recently announced a significant production capacity, grew double digits. This growth reflects the increasing demand for oligonucleotides for RNA-based drugs. DDG's operating margin for the quarter was 19.6%, up 40 basis points from a year ago. In October, there was some exciting news from Merck for lung cancer patients and for Agilent. Merck's KEYTRUDA is now approved by the FDA for first-line treatment for metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer for patients with high rates of PD-L1 expression. In conjunction, Agilent's pharmDx companion diagnostics PD-L1 test is now approved for expanded use. This is the first time an Agilent's PD-L1 companion diagnostic is approved for first-line testing. The theme of investing for our future is also evident in DDG. We launched a comprehensive offering of pooled CRISPR libraries for functional genomics. This will help accelerate research into complex diseases and drug discovery. We signed an agreement with the Burning Rock Biotech to develop cancer diagnostics in China based on Agilent SureSelect solutions. And we broke ground and initiated construction on the previously announced $120 million investment in a new factory in Colorado to expand nucleic acid production capacity. Turning now to operating margin. We remain focused on operating margin improvement. Since the new Agilent leadership team was appointed, we have delivered 7 consecutive quarters of improved operating margin and strong growth. Despite continued challenges in the chemical and energy business, we have improved adjusted operating margin by 280 basis points in the first 2 years of the company's transformation. We have completely absorbed and offset the $40 million of dis-synergy costs due to the spin-off of Keysight. On the operations front, our Agile Agilent program continues to simplify the company and lower operating costs. This program is designed to keep us nimble, improve our interaction with customers and lower our costs. It is having an impact and will continue to deliver savings in 2017 and beyond. In the coming year, we will realize cost savings from the completion of the integration of Dako in early 2017, a simplified enterprise IT systems environment and other cost-savings initiatives. Turning to our FY '17 market and company outlook. As a reminder, our shareholder value creation model for superior earnings growth is to outgrow the market and expand operating margins with a balanced deployment of our capital. Didier will go through the specifics of our Q1 '17 and full year guidance. I want to share our thinking about end markets and our initial guidance philosophy, given an environment of increased uncertainty. This is a change since our last call and the May 2016 Analyst Investor Day. In our end markets, we expect continued strength in pharma, accompanied by continued solid growth in the food, environmental and clinical research and diagnostics markets. Geographically, China and India are expected to grow at significantly higher rates than other countries. There remains considerable uncertainty about European markets. We are forecasting moderate growth in the United States with the U.S. government policies and spending and chemical and energy markets being the wildcards. Chemical and energy, while entering a period of easier compares and improved oil prices, has not yet returned to growth. We expect a continued subdued academic and government research market in the coming year until uncertainties resulting from Brexit and the U.S. elections play out. We are also keeping a watchful eye on how potential new U.S. government driven trade and currency evaluation discussions could impact our business. We finished 2016 very strongly, and we are well positioned for future growth with a pipeline of new offerings. In our initial revenue guidance for 2017, however, we want to be on the cautious side. We want to see some more clarity on U.S. and European government actions and have better indicators of when we will return to growth in our industrial end markets. Predicting end-market growth in today's uncertain political and economic environment is challenging. However, I can predict quite confidently that we will continue our track record of outgrowing the market whatever market environment we encounter. We continue to expand our customer channel reach and fortify our portfolio, which strengthens us well for the coming year and beyond. The transformation of Agilent we discussed at the May Analyst and Investor Day is in full force. The new leadership team, put in place in early 2015, continues to deliver strong operating results each and every quarter. We are building momentum for future growth. We have improved our adjusted operating margins by 200 basis points over the past 2 years and our march to improved operating margins will continue in 2017. However, in our initial operating margin and earnings per share guidance for 2017, we want to be on the cautious side. Since our May Analyst and Investor Day meeting, changes in exchange rate, pension expenses and the recent iLab acquisition are having a short-term dilutive impact on our operating margins of 0.5%. The Agilent team, however, is laser-focused on improving another 130 basis points of operating margin. We have an internal action plan aligned with achieving a 22% operating margin goal in fiscal 2017, excluding M&A impact. This is the primary goal for our executive team's compensation. We continue to hold ourselves to a higher level of performance, expectations than reflected in our initial full year earnings guidance. As you assess our future possibilities, I will leave you with a few thoughts. We are expanding our product portfolio and extending into adjacent markets. We're improving the customer experience by streamlining processes and modernizing systems, making the company more efficient and customer friendly. Our Agile Agilent program has and will continue to deliver incremental improvements in operating margin. The One Agilent team continues to work well together and is determined to win in the market. We believe we are well positioned to sustain our strong operational performance and achieve our long-term goals. The entire Agilent team is energized and committed to deliver future growth. Thank you for being on the call today. I will now turn it over to Didier, who will provide initial insights on our financial results and initial guidance for our fiscal Q1 and full year 2017. Didier?

Hirsch: Thank you, Mike, and hello, everyone. As Mike stated, we are very pleased with our Q4 and full year performance, both well over the high end of our guidance. We delivered above-market core revenue growth of 6.3% and 5.9%, respectively; and our operating margin, adjusted for income from Keysight, was up 60 basis points and 110 basis points, respectively. Our full year EPS at $1.98 is 14% higher than the previous year. Please note that we have reduced our pro forma tax rate by 1 percentage points, which had a $0.02 impact on our EPS. Our operating cash flow for the full year, at $793 million, reflects our strong overall performance. And turning to capital returns. For the first -- for the year, we returned $584 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and buybacks or 89% of our free cash flow. I will now turn to the guidance for fiscal year 2017. As Mike stated, our initial guidance, like last year, assumes that -- what we believe to be appropriate caution. Our fiscal year '17 revenue guidance of $4.35 billion to $4.37 billion corresponds to a core revenue growth of 4% to 4.5%. It is based on October 31 exchange rates and currency had a 0.6 percentage point impact -- negative impact on revenues. We project fiscal year '17 adjusted operating margin of 21% to 21.5% and fiscal year '17 EPS of $2.10 to $2.16, growing 8% at midpoint. As you update your models for fiscal year '17, please consider the following 10 points : First, annual salary increases will be effective December 1, 2016. Second, stock-based compensation will be about $59 million. And as we front end the recognition of stock-based compensation, the Q1 expense will be about $23 million. Third, the reduction in bond yields is negatively impacting our annual pension expenses by about $12 million. Fourth, depreciation is projected to be $104 million for the fiscal year. Fifth, the non-GAAP effective tax rate is projected to remain at 19%. Sixth, we plan to return approximately $600 million in capital to shareholders, including $170 million in dividends and $430 million in buybacks, subject to customary conditions. Seventh, we plan to borrow $250 million in the second half to fund a portion of our capital returns. Eighth, net interest expense is forecasted at $71 million and other income at $11 million. Ninth, for purpose of our EPS guidance, we have assumed a diluted share count of 324 million shares, 5 million shares less than the average diluted share count in fiscal year '16. And finally, tenth, we expect operating cash flow of $825 million and capital expenditures of $200 million, about $60 million over fiscal year '16, mostly due to the investment in the second nucleic acid facility. Now finally, moving to the guidance for our first quarter. First, please note that Lunar New Year falls in Q1 this year versus Q2 last year, meaning about $15 million of revenue shifting from Q1 to Q2. We expect Q1 revenues of $1.04 billion to $1.06 billion and EPS of $0.48 to $0.50. At midpoint, revenue will grow 2.2% on a core basis and EPS will grow 7%. And as customary, Q1 EPS is negatively impacted by the December salary increase, front loading of stock-based compensation and the increase in payroll taxes due to the disbursement of the variable and incentive pay of the previous year.

Mullen: Yes, I mentioned -- I ask Mark to comment on that because as you may recall, we really have changed the portfolio composition of the company, doing much more in the aftermarket. So cath lab instruments are actually less than 50% now of total company's revenue. And historically, China has been driven by new instrument purchases. We're seeing increasing growth also coming from services and consumables.

Hirsch: Yes, the main reason for the increase, which is about $60 million, from $139 million this year to $200 million next year, is really the significant increase that we're planning in terms of our nucleic acid facilities, RNA-based therapeutics and -- in Colorado. So we had one facility. We're still expanding the capacity of that facility, but we are building and we just started a few weeks ago 20 miles away a second facility that will kind of double the capacity when it will be put in production end of 2018, 2019. So that is the main reason for the increase. And starting in 2018, we should start -- we will see a reduction in the CapEx. This is not the run rate. Our CapEx run rate is still between -- like between $100 million and $120 million per year.

Meehan: I wanted to follow up on the diagnostics business. Really, I thought it was a nice quarter on a tough comp. I know you talked about the PD-L1. But just any -- I wanted to focus on the Omnis and just whether you think you're picking up steam into 2017 and anything worth watching on the reimbursement side with that?

Meehan: Great, that's helpful. And then I just wanted to follow up on the margin again. And just from our seat, what we should be watching? And what would push you to the 22% above level for this year? What are some of the actions that you think are going to be critical for doing that?

Mullen: Yes, I mean, Didier, feel free to augment my response here. But I think, obviously, it's going to be volume, which is about 60% of the margin improvement comes from volume. And the things that we can control, we're on top of. So it's really -- that's the one thing I can't control is what's going to happen in the market. So obviously, there's that 60% tied to margin. And then we've got some pretty big initiatives in the gross margin area, with our water fulfillment team. I think you may have heard me speak previously about some of our work in value engineering, material cost, reductions in logistics. So I think also we keep an eye on our gross margins as we work through the year. Some of the things take a while until actually they start coming through your P&L. But once they're there, they're there for extended period of time. And, Didier, anything else you'd add to that?

Hirsch: No, I mean, just that, I mean, we do have stretch goals. As we mentioned, we are paid internally on achieving 22%. And that means all of us have stretch goals to make -- to achieve that -- to contribute to the 22%. And OSS, under Henrik, the order fulfillment and supply chain organization, which has delivered greatly in '16 is looking at opportunities to deliver even more in '17, which would help us bridge the gap.

Mullen: Yes. And thanks, Didier. I had one additional thought here is, I think it's important to remind everyone is that some of the things that are going to help in '17 have already been finished in '16. So things such as our simplification of our financial systems infrastructure.

Arias: Mike, just sort of following up on the outlook. Kind of like how are you thinking about the pacing of growth in chemical and energy in '17? Is the assumption that you kind of see some sequential improvement through the year? Or are you basically flat lining the business across the quarter just given that we haven't seen much in the way of positive signals?

Mullen: I think you anticipated my answer. So we basically have a flat line for the year. And it hasn't -- it's been shrinking for the last 7 or 8 quarters 2% or 3%. I think we ended up down about 3% for the full year. And we're basically saying, it's going to be flattish for '17. If there's any good news to that story is the fundamental industries are still out there in terms of gasoline is being produced. We've seen record levels of production in the United States, for example. The plants are running. There's a lot of discussion. There's a lot of reports externally about a turn. Oil prices have been inching up. But our history here is that it's really hard to know exactly when it's going to turn. What I can say is that if you have a profitability productivity message associated with something you can bring to the laboratory, then they might listen to you. And we're hopeful that some of our new product introductions will hit the mark there. But in terms of our overall market assumption and growth assumption for the company, we're assuming flat for '17.

Arias: Got it. Okay, great. And then maybe just to go back to the M&A and the margin comments. As we sort of think about the moving parts on the op margin guidance and just what you might look to do this year, how at risk is the current op margin outlook from additional M&A? I mean, obviously, it's tough to discuss these things in the abstract. But are you open to further dilution if the right asset comes along? Or do you kind of think you hold the line with the current forecasts?

C: Good morning, Mike, or good evening, I should say. Could you talk a little bit about FX in China specifically? Are you selling in dollars? What are the puts and takes on the currency volatility or the strength of the dollar versus the yuan there?

Inc.: Yes, you're correct, Paul. We are selling more than 60% of our business in U.S. dollars, and less than 40% mostly around our service and consumable business and also locally produced products in renminbi. So overall, the renminbi weakened by about 7%, if I recall, on a year-over-year basis. The impact for us in terms of the top line was about a 3-point reduction. So in local currency, our growth in China would have been mid-double digit versus low double digit as it is on a reported basis. Besides that, we are perfectly hedged in terms of the bottom line in China with local manufacturing as well as a strong presence of setting our local currency revenue.

C: And then lastly, Mike, on the analytical instrumentation side of the business, applied market pickup more pronounced as the quarter wrapped up?

Inc.: That makes sense, and then one follow-up just on margins. It looked like you had a really nice progression here in LSAG in the quarter. I was curious if there was anything worth flagging there. And then maybe just conversely just in CrossLab, was any of that related just to a little bit of slower growth on the consumables side, or just anything worth highlighting would be great?

Inc.: Yes. I would say, regarding DGG, no, we consider this as being the new normal. I'm looking at Jacob, and he agrees. And regarding ACG, a slight reduction on the gross margin. What happened is there was a little bit higher than normal inventory adjustments, and that was one factor, and then a little bit also on the currency front. And the last factor which impacted ACG but not Agilent overall is how at the beginning of the year we changed our locations among our three businesses, and Mark in ACG was fortunate to grow faster than the other businesses, basically saw a little bit of a bigger increase in allocation of our shared services. Again, no impact to Agilent overall, but it did explain a little bit of the

Inc.: So on the instruments side, we obviously will benefit from the growth. But also as we've mentioned in prior calls, we have a series of initiatives underway and our order fulfillment team really focusing on improving the gross margin. I think they're starting to see somewhat of an impact of those efforts on the instrumentation side of our business.

Broker): First, just given that you guys have an extra month that you're reporting out today versus most of your peers, and I know you touched on chemical energy being pretty consistent throughout the quarter but anything you saw in January in other end markets that was different from the first two months of the quarter?

Inc.: No. No, not really. The seasonality of our business in Q1 was very consistent with historical patterns so nothing really unusual. Now typically we see a lot of activity from shipment and order bookings in December for the calendar year end money and patterns are what we've seen in prior years.

Broker): Okay, and then one clarification on margin. I thought I heard you say that DGG is at the new normal. I think you talked in the past about driving that to be more of a 20% margin business.

Inc.: You have a great recollection of the progression of the agencies in China because, as you know, a couple years ago we were pointing to a slowdown in this area because of the reorganization. So I'd say we're probably still in the early innings of this. If you follow the typical five-year plan, this is an area of focus, so I think we're probably still in the early innings of the growth in the food area. I think it's primarily food safety, but I will tell you what is growing very quickly is the food authenticity. We're looking for various forms of counterfeiting of products that may be trying to find their way into the market. So it's still being driven by food safety, but the authenticity side of things is really growing quite strongly. Both from a government customs perspective, but also our private sector clients also want to ensure some testing is done.

Broker): Helpful. And just to pivot. Didier, you cited some inventory write downs as a headwind for gross margins in the quarter, but there's been a lot of reference to new product launches over the last call it year or year and a half that really accelerated organic growth. How should we think about the progression of gross margin throughout the year and how much pricing should we think will flow through in 2017?

Inc.: Yeah. We are overall – I mean certainly ACG was not impacted per se on the new product and things like that. But you are absolutely correct that whenever we introduce new products it's an opportunity to increase our gross margin for two reasons. Number one is we know the design our products using the latest and greatest of value engineering kind of techniques. And then second, because we introduce products that are truly differentiated, we're able to price them into – it's a great example. So we do – you will see the gross margins going up over time and throughout the year. I cannot quantify precisely the impact of pricing, new product introduction and a few other things. And again, Q1 was a little bit special, especially for ATG because of the fact that

Mullen: And I think it's worth adding here, Didier, which is how we manage the company, right? So listen, we're not going to shortchange investments, which we think we can do relative to R&D and channels for future growth. But at the same point in time, we are going to be disciplined with our spending. And I think you'll see that's how we've been managing the company, and that's why we've been able to get some of these margins up for the overall company performance.

Beuchaw: I appreciate all the color there. Just one detail point for me, and then I'll let others jump in. It has to do with the expansion of the plant in Colorado, the oligonucleotide capacity expansion. I wonder if we could get an update there on how that process is going and how we might think about the timing on when that incremental capacity could be a driver, contribution at the topline.

Mullen: Yes, it's actually a very timely question because Didier and I just review with Jacob and the team the progress on the construction. And if you happen to find yourself on Frederick County, we can give you the address. You can drive by and wave to the construction crew there. But construction is proceeding as planned, right on target. And we got through the winter months without a lot of any kind of major disruptions to our construction. And from a -- as you know, this is a pretty complex manufacturing facility. In fact, this will be sort of a one-of-a-kind in the industry given the amount of capacity that we're adding. And then it also requires a level of validation required on the site. So long story. Short of it, I think you should think about this as being an FY '19 revenue impact for the company. We do believe that we can continue to get strong growth in our current facility. But as you know, we're going to run out of capacity, so we're looking to bring that online in early

Couillard: Mike, a question for you. I mean, with 85% of the chemical and energy business trending positively, I mean, what do you want to see before feeling more comfortable calling a bottom there? And any chance you could give us an update on what's embedded in your full year outlook for core growth for that segment?

Sergott: Great. And I guess, turning to the gross margins. They're really strong in the quarter. Can you just dig in a little bit more there? Like, what was leading that strength in the business going forward?

Mullen: Yes, I'll make some high-level comments, and I think -- then I'll pass it on to Didier. So obviously, topline growth at 9% core growth helps a lot. But we also have a number of initiatives underway in order fulfillment team, our global manufacturing footprint under Henrik. And we're getting a lot of cost out of our materials, optimizing overhead costs as well as driving down logistics. But anything else you'd add?

Hirsch: Nothing to add. Obviously, I chose -- 30 years ago, you started as a -- in the controllership organization,

Thaysen: Yes, you're absolutely right that we -- the topline drives our bottom line also, so the margin really has driven the 24% margin. Operating margin, we have up 900 basis points, is certainly something I'm very pleased with. What I want to remind also is that if you look into Q1, we come from a lower margin perspective there. So the 2 quarters, the first half of the year here is really around the 20%, where I believe we have committed to delivering on this business for the full year.

Mullen: Maybe I'll just add to that. I mentioned it in my call script, but the early part of this year marked a major milestone for us, which was the integration of the former Dako business into the Agilent infrastructure and systems. And I think that is part of your story. I mean, that was always part of the plant, but that's also why we think that some of these improvements all being, let's say, a 24% operating margin every quarter. But that's also why I believe some of these improvements are sustainable because we are fundamentally changing the underlying cost structure that support this business.

Arias: Mike, again, it doesn't look like we're getting together -- Mike, it doesn't look like we're getting together for Analyst Day this spring, so maybe just one on strategy. Wondering if you can offer anything on how interested you are in M&A at this point. And to the extent that you're looking around at assets, what might you be willing to deploy? And then where might the focus be?

March: That does. And Mike, maybe just one quick one on capital allocation. As you think about share buybacks, dividends and with $1.80 net cash, how do you think about what's the optimal strategy for Agilent in terms of leverage or lack thereof?

Mullen: Well, we think that we've been describing it as a balanced capital allocation policy, where our primary use of cash is to invest in the business. We talked about M&A a bit already today, but also the investment in our new facility in Colorado. So we're going to use our cash for -- primarily for investing in the business, but we also want to increasingly grow our cash dividends. So you see every year, we've been bringing up our cash dividend, and we're also using our leverage capability to actually buy back shares. So the share repurchase program that was announced when I came in as CEO actually was financed through debt. So -- and we like to keep some -- our debt capacity available for M&A as we would see, and we're quite conscious of maintaining the investment grade level rating on our debt. So I guess, long -- or short of it is no change from the strategy we've been pursuing for the last 2 years.

Schulte: Within pharma, you've talked about small molecule customers going to a replacement cycle, any updated thoughts on how much longer that has left? And then can you break out what you saw from small molecule versus biopharma in the quarter?

Mullen: Thanks, Alicia. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Q3 marked on a strong quarter for the Agilent team. We exceeded our own expectation of both the top and bottom line. We continue to deliver above-market growth. Our revenues of $1.11 billion grew by 7.5% on a core basis. Adjusted EPS of $0.59 is up 20% over last year's third quarter. Our focus on operational excellence continues to pay off. We delivered an adjusted operating margin of 21.5%, up 90 basis points from a year ago.

O, you asked me a very good question: could Agilent make the adjustments to improve our operating margin while outgrowing the market? Well, we have. This is the 10th consecutive quarter of improving core operating margins while outgrowing the market. So where is our strong Q3 growth coming from? From an end-market perspective, both the chemical -- global Chemical & Energy and Pharma markets grew by 10%. And geographically, China continues to be strong, while we experienced better-than-expected growth in Europe. Let's take a closer look at what's happening in our end markets. Our pharma revenue is up 10%. We are well positioned to capture growing customer demand with our broad and differentiated offering of instruments, services and consumables. Demand was also strong for our API offerings. Chemical & Energy is up 10%. This is the second consecutive quarter of double-digit growth. Similar to last quarter, growth was broad-based across regions and products. Our customers are beginning to upgrade their labs and are investing in equipment replacements. While some uncertainty remains on the pace of recovery, we are encourage by the reinvestment. After 4 consecutive quarters of decline, we had a nice surprise with the low single-digit core growth in Academia and Government. Strength in Europe and double-digit growth in cell analysis, spectroscopy and services drove our results. Food grew 2% against a difficult compare in Q3 last year. Food market fundamentals remain sound with strength this quarter in Europe. Environmental and Forensics grew a healthy 7%. Our strong growth was driven by Asia-Pacific and the Americas. Concerns about the health of our environment continue to drive the Asia market. Diagnostic and Clinical grew by 6%, led by pathology and companion diagnostics, and geographically, strength in Europe. Now turning to look at our different regions. Geographic performance was driven by double-digit growth in Europe, and continued China performance. The Americas grew by mid-single digits, while Japan was flat. And now let's turn to the highlights from our business groups. The Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group delivered core revenue growth of 7%. From an end-market perspective, strength in Chemical & Energy, Pharma and Environmental continued to drive the performance. Looking at our product portfolio, growth is broad-based across all our products, and we continue to strengthen our lineup. We recently introduced 7 new additions to our InfinityLab LC series. At ASMS, we unveiled our newest LC/MS Triple Quad, the Ultivo. It's not an exaggeration to say it's revolutionary. The Ultivo is 70% smaller than previous instruments, yet it still delivers the same or better performance than its predecessor. Our customers tell us that the Triple Quad is the workhorse of the lab. The Ultivo allows our customer to maximize their lab space and increase capacity without compromising performance or uptime. This revolutionary new instrument is a great example of Agilent's market expertise and commitment to customer-centric innovation. We also strengthened our GC/MS lineup with the introduction of a new high-resolution, accurate-mass system. This new product will help our customers address the growing demand for identification of unknown chemical samples. We look to buy businesses in fast-growing, adjacent market segments with differentiated offerings and strong teams. In July, we completed the acquisition of Cobalt Light Systems, adding Raman spectroscopy to our spectroscopy lineup. Cobalt Light Systems has developed ground-breaking technology that is integrated into an innovated suite of bench-top and handheld instruments. We are now directly participating in this fast-growing spectroscopy market segment. There are strong synergies between the 2 companies. We are scaling the operations at Cobalt Light Systems and will be offering our current customers these groundbreaking solutions. CrossLab, a key strategic move of a new Agilent, continues to pay off. The Agilent CrossLab Group maintained a strong performance again this quarter, with core revenue growth of 8%. Growth was robust for both services and consumables. The Diagnostics and Genomics Group also delivered strong core revenue growth of 8%. Results were driven by strong demand for our pathology products and companion diagnostic services. We see particular strength for our PD-L1 and molecular products. As I mentioned earlier, our Nucleic Acid Solutions business, which can be lumpy, performed well, and is up by very strong double digits. The growth we saw in our Pathology business is a strong sign that we are regaining market share, with our automation system, Omnis, and the new products we are continuing to introduce, from special stains to ready-to-use anti-body offerings, our Pathology division is creating a lot of momentum. We also introduced our newest next-generation sequencing library prep solution, Agilent SureSelectXT HS. This research solution benefits our customers by streamlining the entire NGS workflow. On the M&A front, we acquired the molecular and sample barcoding patent portfolios of Population Genetics Technologies. This expansion of our IP portfolio bolsters our target enrichment leadership position, enabling the future integration of new solutions to our customers. Rapid integration of the Multiplicom business continues to proceed according to plan. Let me close out my portion of the call recapping the journey of the new Agilent, and with some comments on our Q4 outlook. In May of 2015, at our first Analyst and Investor Day of the new Agilent, we laid out an ambitious 3-year plan to create shareholder value.

We made 3 commitments: We committed to outgrow the market. We committed to improve adjusted operating margins over 400 basis points. We committed to take a balanced approach in deploying our capital. Over the past 10 quarters, we have been delivering on our commitments. I'm so proud of this team. We are on the cusp of achieving the goals that we set for ourselves. And we first shared with you over 2 years ago. We are a team that delivers on its commitments. I think it's now time retire the description "New Agilent." We have put in a new foundation for the company to grow, and we are firmly focused on the future. The achievement of these goals is just the beginning. Our story is a forward-looking story, with a laser focus on delivering superior earnings growth and creating shareholder value. Looking at the more immediate future, I want to close with a few comments about Q4, '17. First, we remain somewhat cautious about the potential for a cyclical recovery. We also know we're heading into period of tough compares for our global Pharma and China businesses. Yet, the overall market environment for Agilent is stronger than forecasted coming into this year. Given these considerations, we are once again raising our full year core growth and earnings expectations. I look forward to answering your questions later in the call, and will now hand off to Didier. Didier will provide additional insights on our Q3 results and updated guidance. Didier?

Mullen: Sorry about that, Jack. They say your hearing is one of the first things to go when you get older. Let me start with the biopharma comment, and then, Patrick, I'm going to have you jump in and give your view on the dimension by geography. But we're really pleased. Although we don't report externally the absolute results in the biopharma segment of the pharma market, we're really pleased with how this business is performing. As you may recall, this is a major strategic initiative that we launched probably about 2.5 years ago to really go after the biopharma market segment in a much different manner. We've been bringing to market a number of new novel solutions. We've changed our go-to-market strategy, and it's paying off. So what I can tell you is we grew double-digit in biopharma in the third quarter. We think we're outpacing the overall market. And perhaps, your view of mix by geography and then anything else you want to add,

Kaltenbach: Yes, sure. Thanks, Mike. So we have seen a strong -- very, very strong growth in China. We have seen reasonable growth in EMEA, in Europe, and also would say single-digit growth in . So that's the distribution on a regional level. And it's heavily driven, of course, by biopharma, as Mike mentioned because that is growing ahead of the space. But I would say if you look at the different segments in Pharma, it's on the R&D side, as well as manufacturing QA, QC, we are very well-represented there. And we don't see a real slowdown right now in the biopharma space. So looking forward, given the new portfolio we have. Also the focus on complete workflows that we launched over the last couple of months, we are pretty confident that we will continue to grow strong in this market and capture more share.

Hirsch: Yes, so on the API side, the -- our Nucleic Acid Solutions division, we see a lot of great momentum in the business. And we continue to really be in a situation where capacity is our main constraint. So that's also why we, right now, as we explained before, we are building this new capacity -- manufacturing capacity out in Colorado in Boulder, to really make sure we can expand versus the demand that's out there. We have seen -- as it goes in this business, we did see a few quarters ago, that one of our customers did not meet the endpoint in a Phase III clinical trial. And that has led us to rebuild the pipeline. We have seen very strong demand, and we are really back in full swing again.

Meehan: That's great. And then clearly a lot of new product launches coming on the mass spec side. I was wondering if you had any thoughts related to pushing mass spec into the clinical setting. A couple of your peers are pretty active there.

Peterson: My question on maybe just a longer-term outlook on margins. Wondering if you could comment a little bit as we think about the framework for next year, could you get a similar level of margin improvement and are there levers whether it's pricing or improving R&D efficiency that you could kind of point to as we think about the margin setup for next year?

Mullen: Thanks, Tyco. Appreciate the question. What I'll do is I'll refer you back to the messaging that we provided at our last AID. So what we committed to was greater than 22, as we move forward. And we think we've got a model which allows us to continue to improve our operating margin. But -- and it's going to be a combination of a number of things you mentioned already, which is innovation focus, making sure that we're pricing for value, they're managing our discounts correctly. So we have initiative underway we call the PDQ, a pricing and discounting quote initiative to really make sure that we're managing the price envelope correctly. The other thing I would point to is also the great work that our order fulfillment team has been doing. So when we formed the new company, we centralized all the manufacturing logistics and material procurement in one organization. And they've been doing a very nice job. And we think that the transformation that's underway in our supply chain allow us to have some cost reductions in the future. So we won't commit today in the call to a specific number, but we like improving operating margins without sacrificing growth. That was my -- one of the key parts of my script, which says, hey, we're going to outgrow the market while improving operating margin. So that will continue to be our model. And as we look forward, and you can expect us to try to sustain levels of success we've enjoyed so far.

Peterson: Okay. And then question on Intuvo, I understand you're generally not calling for cyclical Chemical & Energy recovery, but if we think about just the sales cycle, can you maybe talk as to how it's tracked versus initial expectations? How long are we going to have trialing systems? What would be the update?

Mullen: Sure. Yes, glad to -- always happy to talk about Intuvo. And we also have the Ultivo. So it is getting a little -- can be a tongue twister at times. But, Patrick, why don't you update the callers on what's going on with Intuvo?

Kaltenbach: Yes, absolutely. So we're happy with the feedback that we received from the installed base. So of the instruments we have shipped so far, customers are really excited about the performance, robustness and ease of use of this product. That said, we are not still and not yet shipping any really big bulk orders. As we said in the calls in the last quarter and the quarter before is, we think it will happen more in fiscal year '18 when customers had enough time to test the instruments and also assign a budget to these instruments moving forward.

Mullen: Yes, I think that was learning for us, Patrick, which was, we thought we had -- we were in sort of the window with a September launch. But we really -- what we found out from our customers, they really didn't have time to plan for this in their 2017 budget.

Mullen: Yes, thanks for that, Paul. Appreciate the congratulatory comments. I'll make sure that the team hears that. And relative to the oligo expansion, in fact, a few of us are heading out there tomorrow to see firsthand are we're seeing pictures of the building, but there's nothing like seeing it firsthand. So we have a -- going out and spend some time with the team. We're expanding into Frederick. The construction schedule is going right according to plan. I think,

Mullen: 2018, the factory will be done. But there'll be a validation process required. And the reason why I asked Jacob to talk about some of the customer activity is because we still see an incredible amount of demand for customers. And it's been a capacity constraint kind of growth challenge for us. But we're fully committed. We'll see firsthand, and maybe I'll have some more in-depth comments when I talk to you next. But the construction schedule and the go-to market is still on -- per plan. And then relative to China, and overall Asia, so I think about China, China continues to develop, just as we have forecasted. I think we're a little bit over double-digit through the first 3 quarters. We thought it would be a double-digit grower for us in 2017. We're seeing no signs of slowdown there. I think what has been a nice surprise is the other countries in Southeast Asia has been a very fast growing -- faster growing market for us. You may recall about a year ago, a lot of concerns about the impact of the currency outside of those countries. And inside Agilent, we call it SAPK, which is South Asia, Pacific and Korea, and we've been putting good growth up in that part of the sector, much higher than we had in prior years. I would say that Japan is the one where the market is still sluggish. Although, we've been able to have about a 6% growth rate over the last 2 quarters. But it's -- that's probably the most challenging of all the Asian markets we play in. I don't know whether you count India and Asia or not. It's managed in Agilent by our European team. But India market also continues to be quite strong. So I think Asia is going to continue to be a growth story.

Knight: What's your primary, most important element do you think behind your market share gains? Is it CrossLab? Or is it tuck-in potential situations like Cobalt?

Thaysen: Yes, Steve, thanks, for that. And I'm very pleased with the new announcement of the SureSelectXT HS, which I think is going to really drive the business going forward. First of all, it would work very well with FFPE. And with the molecular barcodes, you would also see that we would be able to really get very certain in results on low leading frequencies. So I think this is exactly what the market is looking for. Overall, the SureSelect and I'll talk on this, investment business has been a success story for DGG and for genomics over last many years. It is a substantial part of genomics business, and it continues to grow in the double-digit regime. I think we have seen industry over last few quarters that the market has at least taken a little bit of a pause, but we still see double-digit growth of our business. So it is -- I think we still are definitely keeping our market share out in the business. I'm not sure right now whether we're taking market share, but we're certainly keeping it. And with the new SureSelectXT HS, I'm very convinced that we will start to see even stronger momentum again. I will say that SureSelect and where we're going with all this right now is our strategy is to become a whole workflow provider, where SureSelect is going to be a key part of that, and SureSelect is our entry into that market. So clearly it's very important for us going forward, but we are going to expand out both with the ELISA platform, our bioinformatics platform. But also with our Lasergen investments, we hope to be full workflow provider in the future.

Beuchaw: That super helpful. The second thing I was hoping to get just a little color on is the Nucleic Acid Solutions market, the environment surrounding the investment in Colorado. On the last call, Mike, gave us an update on the progress there, we talked about the potential for that to be a more material contributor, the capacity expansion, for fiscal '19. Could you give us a sense for how big you think the relative opportunity is as compared to how much business you're doing out today and how much business are you just having to pass on because of that capacity constraint? And how fast does it ramp?

Thaysen: Yes, thanks, again, Stephen and I appreciate the interest in the NASD business, which is very exciting. Most of our customers today are still doing clinical trials. So there's a lot of investment and we continue to track the investment going into this market right now with this new type of drugs. And there is a continued increase investments and we are hopeful to see some of those clinical trials coming out into commercial products over the next few years here. And that will create a substantial step up in the -- both in the expectations and also the requirements to our capacity. So I see that this could take it quite far over next 10 years. I would say Pharma does not go as fast as diagnostic, but you would see some step-ups every time we see some products going out and be commercial. So related to our current business, I think they certainly have an opportunity to substantially have -- see a substantial growth going forward over the next 5 years and probably also next 10 years. Do you want to say more?

Kaltenbach: Yes, I'll just add one thing, Steve. Right now, the business is about $70 million, $80 million and we are capped. We are operating at maximum capacity. And as Mike and Jacob mentioned, the new capacity only comes on board in 2019. And will add about $100 million after it's full running state. So the ramp will be throughout fiscal year '19. So fiscal year '20, we're talking about $100 million, just with that additional business, but 2018 will be relatively flat with 2017 because we are already at capacity of existing facility.

Couillard: Mike, just a question on the M&A high-level, how you see the pipeline? And if you could sort of elaborate on exactly what the Population Genetics deal does for you strategically and economically?

Mullen: Well, I think all 3 group presidents are fighting now to see who can grow the fastest. So we think all of our business groups can grow, I think that the rest of them really unique fundamentals going on in DGG space, which perhaps has a higher long-term inherent growth rate than some of our other markets. So we think we're all going to be winners, and maybe perhaps a little bit higher growth ultimately in

Mullen: Thanks, Alicia. Hello, everyone. Thanks for being on today’s call. I’m pleased to have an opportunity to continue to tell the Agilent story, a story of strong revenue and profit growth that we’ve been telling for the past three years. The Agilent team closed out 2017 with another strong quarter, capping off a tremendous year of revenue and profit growth. We again exceeded our growth expectations. Q4 revenues of $1.19 billion are up almost 6% on a core basis. Reflecting our commitment to improve as Agilent’s operating margins, our Q4 adjusted operating margin of 23.3% is up 80 basis points. This is our 11th consecutive quarter of improving operating margins. The strong revenue growth and margin improvements resulted in Q4 adjusted EPS of $0.67, an increase of 14%. Looking at the full year, we delivered a highest growth rate since the 2014 launch of the New Agilent. Our 2017 revenues of $4.47 billion are up 6.7% on the core basis. We have strong momentum going into 2018. Adjusted operating margin for the year is up 130 basis points over last year. And as you know, in 2015, I committed to increasing Agilent’s adjusted operating margin by 410 basis points over FY14’s adjusted operating margin to 22% by 2017. I’m pleased to announce that we’ve made this commitment and accomplished our goal. We are not done yet of course, but this is significant achievement by the Agilent team. We will continue to focus on making improvements in our operating results. The momentum in our business combined with our operational excellence drove a 19% increase in adjusted earnings per share for the full year to $2.36 per share. Let me now take a minute or two to look closer what’s driving our stellar results. From an end market perspective, our chemical and energy revenue grew 15%. This was third consecutive quarter of double-digit revenue growth. Growth was broad-based across the spectrum of exploration, refining and chemicals. We are encouraged by the uptake and reinvestment by our customers as they’re upgrading their labs and investing in next generation equipment. A return to growth accelerated in academia and government with 12% growth, which was above our expectations. Growth was broad based across product lines with particular strength in Europe and Americas. Our higher than expected growth has resulted in improved funding environment and market share gains. Food revenue grew 10% against the difficult compare of 10% in Q4 of last year. From a product perspective, the strength was broad based, led by services, consumables, mass spectrometry. Regionally, Europe and Asia drove the gains. Pharma revenue declined 5% against the difficult compare of 16% growth in Q4 of last year, which itself came on top of a 19% growth to Q4. We had been anticipating continued strong pharma investment levels with difficult compares slowing our reported market growth rates to mid-single digits. Some additional specifics of our Q4 results. As expected, the LC replacement cycle continues in this small molecule market segment, but at a slowing rate. NASD revenue also is down, as we expected. We noted in our Q3 call that NASD revenues are batch based which makes them vary from quarter-to-quarter, depending on the timing of customer acceptance. Market demand however for the NASD API offering remains strong. Our product and geographic mix also contributed to the results. We experienced strong order demand from Europe and for higher end mass spectrometry technologies. The order to revenues cycle is longer for Europe in these types of products. We expect these revenues materialize in Q1 and Q2 of FY18. The biopharma segment of our pharma business remained strong along with services and consumables across the entire pharma end market. Diagnostics and clinical grew by 9% led by pathology and companion diagnostics. Continued strong end-market demand and market share gains are driving performance. Environmental and forensics grew 4%, in line with expectations. Concerns about the health of our environment continued to drive the market in Asia. Geographically, our Company results are driven by higher single digit growth in Europe and China. The Americas grew by mid single digits, and Asia excluding China and Japan grew by low single-digits. And finally, let’s turn to highlights from our business groups. The Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group delivered core revenue growth of 4%. Market revenue was led by strength in chemical and energy, academia and government, and food, partially offset by declines in pharma. Double-digit growth in several platforms including mass spectrometry, microfluidics and cell analysis were key driver to reported growth. LSAG had a tremendous year on the innovation front, launching several new high-impact products such as the Ultivo LC-MS triple quad with a 70% smaller footprint than its predecessor. The Ultivo, which began shipping this November and other recent new product introductions are being well-received by the market. This gives us momentum going into 2018. The integration with recent acquisition of Cobalt Light Systems is going very well. Agilent’s CrossLab Group’s strong performance continued this quarter with 8% core revenue growth. Growth was healthy across services and consumables, most regions and end markets. Our CrossLab’s Service and Support organization hit a significant milestone, $1 billion in annual service orders for the first time in a single fiscal year. This milestone was accomplished ahead of our initial expectations. It validates our strategic focus on developing a service business for the entire lab. In a rather short period of time, our team has turned its services business into a key differentiated offering for Agilent. Through these services, we can as a strategic partner with our customers, helping them achieve greater lab efficiencies and outcomes. The customer response to our service offerings is overwhelmingly positive. Our chemistry business and ACG also continue to be awarded for technical innovation with double-digit growth in the AdvanceBio column portfolio for the fiscal year. The Diagnostics and Genomics Group also delivered strong revenue growth of 7%. Demand is increasing for our pathology products and companion diagnostic services. We are seeing continued strength of our PD-L1 and molecular products. As expected, our new Nucleic Acid Solutions business was down for the quarter, given the product driven nature of the business. As previously mentioned, market demand for APIs for RNA-based therapeutics remains strong. DGG achieved a major milestone this year, delivering a 20% operating margin exclusive of acquisitions for the first time. Three years ago, this business had a 13% operating margin; we have increased that to 20%, a tremendous achievement made possible by integrating and driving improvements in the former Dako business, bringing to the market compelling new offerings and executing on gross margin improvement initiatives. DGG continues to expand its market reach. We received several significant FDA approvals this quarter for offerings that help our customers in their efforts to fight cancer. We received FDA approval for expanded use of our PD-L1 cancer diagnostics for Merck’s Keytruda and Bristol-Myers Squibb, Opdivo. We have been closely collaborating with both companies. Our GenetiSure Dx Postnatal Assay received 510(k) clearance. This is our first comparative genomic hybridization assay approved by the FDA for diagnostic use. Our R&D advancements continue to yield differentiated and new products. At the American Society for Human Genetics Conference, we introduced our first expansion of the SureGuide pooled CRISPR libraries for functional genomics. This new offering will help accelerate research in the complex diseases and drug discovery. Agilent received the 2017 Scientists’ Choice Award for Best New Clinical Laboratory Product for the IQFISH Panel for Lung Cancer from the American Association for Clinical Chemistry. This award is elected through online nomination and voting by scientists around the world. This demonstrates how we’re meeting our customers’ needs of products that win their trusts. Before touching on the 2018 outlook, I want to provide you with a perspective about our guidance philosophy and the market environment assumptions underlying our initial outlook. Later in the call, Didier will provide additional guidance specific. We entered 2017 thinking that China and the pharma market would be strong. We also pointed out at that time that we moved into a period of increasingly difficult quarterly compares for these markets. At the same time, we were uncertain about the outlook for Europe and the chemical and energy market. We closed out 2017 with China and the pharma market developing generally as expected; Europe and the chemical and energy market another hand exceeded our initial expectations growing 8% and 11% on a core basis respectively. We enter 2018 with a strong backlog and good visibility for the next one to two quarters. For the full year, we expect pharma to moderate down slightly from a 6% growth rate delivered in 2017. We expect China to maintain a high-single-digit growth rate. For Europe and the chemical and energy markets, while we experienced unexpectedly strong 2017 growth, we will cautiously guide to lower growth in FY18. A level of political and economic uncertainty persists across the globe, providing less visibility into second half 2018. We are taking a wait-and-see outlook for the European and chemical and energy markets. A few final comments about the next chapter in the Agilent story. 2017 was a stellar year for Agilent. We delivered our highest growth rate since the lunch of the new Agilent. We raised our operating margins 410 basis points in three years to 22%. We grew adjusted earnings per share by 19%. While we’re busy improving our operating results, we’ve also been building the Company for the future. Our Agile Agilent program continues to streamline the Company as we upgrade our systems and infrastructure, and drive continued process improvements. We continue to build an even stronger portfolio through our revamped R&D programs and execution of our M&A strategy. We are delivering to the market truly differentiated offerings and augmenting our internal investments with acquisitions. These acquisitions are bringing to Agilent new capabilities and unique new offerings. We then leverage our Company scale to drive revenue and create cost synergies. Our one Agilent cultural transformation is changing the way we work, improving the customer experience; it’s a key driver of our excellent results. We’ve just completed the third year of our Company transformation. We now have a solid foundation in place, a proven track record of doing what we say we will do, and of executing winning a growth strategy. I often tell the Agilent team that the best is yet to come. We have momentum and I believe Agilent’s prospects have never been stronger. Thank you for being on the call and I look forward to answering your questions. I will now hand off the call to Didier. Didier?

Hirsch: Thank you, Mike, and hello, everyone. As Mike stated, we are very pleased with our Q4 and full year performance, both well over the high-end of our guidance. We delivered core revenue growth of 5.8% and 6.7% ,respectively; and our operating margin was up 80 basis points and 130 basis points, respectively. Just as importantly, we reached the goal set in March 2014 to achieve 22% operating margin adjusted for income from Keysight in fiscal year 2017. Our full year EPS at $2.36 is 19% higher than the previous year. Our operating cash flow for the full year at $889 million is $39 million above the increased guidance provided last quarter and $96 million or 12% higher than fiscal year 2016, reflecting a strong overall performance. CapEx spending was $176 million, lower than our initial guidance of $200 million as some CapEx related to our new Nucleic Acid facility was pushed into fiscal year 2018. Turning to capital returns for the year, we paid $170 million in dividends and repurchased $194 million worth of shares. I’ll now turn to the guidance for fiscal year 2018. Although we are comfortable with the present revenue and EPS consensus estimate, we believe as we did in fiscal year 2016 and fiscal year 2017 that it is appropriate to have a cautious first guidance of the year. Our fiscal year 2018 revenue guidance of $4.72 billion to $4.74 billion corresponds to a core revenue growth of 4% to 4.5%. It is based on the October 31st exchange rates, and currency has a 1.3% positive impact on revenues. We project fiscal year 2018 adjusted operating margin of 22.2% to 22.7% and fiscal year 2018 EPS of $2.50 to $2.56, growing 7% at midpoint. If market conditions and our performance continue as strong as we are presently seeing, we stand ready to reflect the ongoing strength as we set quarterly guidance in the future. As you update your models for fiscal year 2018, please consider the following 10 points. First, annual salary increases will be effective December 31, 2017. Second, stock-based compensation will be about $72 million. As we frontload the recognition of stock-based compensation, the Q1 expense will be about $31 million. Third, depreciation is projected to be $101 million for the fiscal year. Fourth, the non-GAAP effective tax rate is projected to remain at 18%. Fifth, we plan to pay $192 million in dividends, as the Board just approved a dividend increase of 13%. Over the last three years, we will have increased our dividend by nearly 50%. Sixth, as for buybacks, we registered 10b5-1 in September that includes two tranches with the maximum overall spend of $380 million. The first tranche is to ensure the repurchase of 2.7 million shares with daily execution throughout the year, to maintain our diluted share count at about 326 million shares on average for the year. The second tranche as in the previous years is opportunistic. Seventh, for purpose of our EPS guidance, we have assumed the diluted share count of 326 million, i.e. we have assumed that the opportunistic tranche does not get triggered. Eighth, net interest expense is forecasted at $59 million, and other income at $14 million. Ninth, we expect operating cash flow of $970 million and capital expenditures of $200 million, which includes about $110 million to complete the new nucleic acid factory that will be operational in 2019. And tenth, the projected tax rate and cash flow exclude any impact from the potential U.S. tax reform. Finally, moving to the guidance for our first quarter. We expect Q1 revenues of $1.145 billion to $1.165 billion, and EPS of $0.55 to $0.57. At midpoint, revenue will grow 5.25% year-over-year on the core basis and EPS will grow 6%. At customary, Q1 EPS is negatively impacted by the December salary increase, the strong loading of stock-based compensation, and the increase in payroll taxes due to the disbursement of the variable and incentive pay of the previous year.

Bruin: So, can we you talk a little bit about the pharma results in the quarter. Just can you parse out the contribution or the lack of contribution from the NASD versus the European rev rec for us? And then, I’ve got a couple of follow-ups on that.

Mullen: Sure. Happy to do so, Derik. So, I’d point you to three comments on our Q4 results in pharma. The first, the one that we’ve been signaling for most of the year which is tough compares. We came off 16% growth in Q4 last year then we had 19% Q4 the prior year. Second piece is the revenue recognition timing, and I think there’s two aspects of that. One is the NASD business which we described in the call as really being a batch based business, kind of depends on when the customer wants to finish up the batch. But the overall market demand looks really good for these products. And then, as you are indicating, we had really strong results in mass spec and in Europe. And typically, we don’t -- they will be order results. Typically, we don’t talk about order, but we wanted to give you a sense of the strength of our pharma business in these areas and how it translates into revenue going into the first half of next year. The third piece would be that we are seeing expected slowing of the LC replacement cycle in small molecule side. So, those are three major drivers of our -- behind our Q4 performance in pharma. Just to remind, we ended up right on our full year guide. So, we came in at 6%, right where we thought we would in terms of pharma. To your specific question, I would say the bulk of the downward trend in the quarter had related to the LC replacement cycle and the shift in European business, probably less than 15%, 20% was NASD, right?

Bruin: And just following up on this. I mean, last quarter, people were sort of having questions about inventory destocking in the biotech and pharma just because there were some mix results. It seems like also a little bit of that this quarter, but not as pronounced. So, you are still not seeing anything other than tough comps that’s making nervous in terms of the pharma, biotech markets?

Mullen: No. In fact, that’s why we went on our way to give you some additional detail in this call, because fundamentals in pharma are still very strong. And then, the biopharma segment in particular has been a continued area of really strong growth for us, and we called that out in our script as well.

Knight: Hi, Mike. Is the Nucleic Acid facility on schedule or where are you with the timing on that?

Mullen: Yes. Good afternoon, Paul. Right on schedule. So, just as a reminder, the plan has been to complete the construction in our 2018 and then move into validation process, which is probably 9 to 12 months, we think Jacob. But then, we’re looking at maybe second half 2019 back half is when we start to see some revenue coming out of that facility. And just as a reminder, the first, a full year capacity would add approximately $100 million of revenue to the Company. It’s really quite an impressive new facility we’re building, I had a chance to visit. And the construction is moving on quite well and we’re now into the final phases. So, we have a much better view of -- and confidence if you will in terms of the timeline. So, it’s a very unique facility, but we’re getting pretty close to the end.

Knight: And then, also, you’d mentioned on the diagnostic side, your FISH panel won award. Now, are you getting traction in your FISH panel for PD-L1 due to automation accuracy? But I know automation had been issue in the past years, I guess that’s solve or what’s the color around that?

Kaltenbach: Thanks. Actually very good question. When we launched the Ultivo, we really launched it with a perspective that we want to dominate what we call the routine applications out there. And we are going first for food and environmental spaces, given the mass range the product has. It is a product that is really tailored towards ease of use and meeting the sensitivity needs that you mentioned as well for the targeted applications. I think this product will display a lot of strength in other areas as well. So, we will extend the range around Ultivo going forward. But when you talk about the overall strategy for LCMS, we are not entirely focused just on the routine markets. As you know, we have launched a bio solution very successfully which drives a lot of growth in the biopharma market as well. So, with both playing in triple quad as well as top space where we think there we have plenty of opportunity to still gain market share. And to Mike’s comment on strong R&D pipeline, LCMS is clearly one of the big bets we have in the

Willoughby: Two questions for you. First, just following up on the Ultivo. It just started shipping this month. I was wondering if you could comment on what your capacity looks like for that system. And I guess with that, what kind of contribution can new products contribute in 2018?

Mullen: Yes. So, I think relative to the question about capacity is from a manufacturing standpoint, no issue at all. So, we’ve -- in fact, we are right now our launch plan with our manufacture lease have incurred at schedule. And you may have noticed in my call, we actually have begun shipping the product. And I think we don’t call out specifically, the revenue impact on new products. But, I would say this is just part of our formula. So, over the last three years, we have been out going to market, and we just put up our biggest growth rate in the history of the new Agilent, although I think I officially retired this, I had to stop using that new Agilent. But I think that’s part of our formula of success and I think that’s why I used the word momentum a few times in my script because we really feel like both in terms of the products that we’ve released over the 12 to 18 months plus the products we know that come out in ‘18 will continue to have momentum because each of our three business groups have a pretty robust set of R&D development activities and commercialization plans for next year as well. So, should we go on to your next question?

Willoughby: Sure, thank you. I just was wondering if you could comment on the competitive environment within the CrossLab of lab service business. One of your competitors made a comment a week or two ago regarding some wins and just if there’s any changes going on in the competitive environment for lab service outsourcing?

Rodriguez: Thank you, Jonathan. And on behalf of all of the Agilent management team, thank you for joining us today. If you have any questions, please give us a call in IR. And I’d like to wish you a good rest of the day and a happy holiday season for those of who will be celebrating it.

Inc.: Thanks, Alicia. Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us. In today's call, I want to cover our Q1 business results and talk about Agilent's business momentum. Let's start with the business results. I'm happy to report that the Agilent team delivered an outstanding start to 2018. We exceeded our own growth and earnings expectations. We continue to outgrow the market. Q1 revenues of $1.21 billion grew 10% on a core basis, and we continue to improve our operating margins. Adjusted operating margin of 22.5% is up 130 basis points from Q1 of last year. I'm proud to report that this is our 12th consecutive quarter of improving operating margins. The combination of strong revenue growth and continued margin improvements drove an adjusted EPS of $0.66 for the quarter, well above our expectations. Adjusted EPS is up 25% over the first quarter of last year. Now on to Agilent's business momentum. When I use the term momentum, I'm describing strong, broad-based growth for all our businesses as we outgrow the market. In this context, our momentum remains very strong. First, our chemical and energy revenue grew 13% with broad strength in all product categories. Customers are investing across the spectrum of exploration, refining and chemicals. This is the fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit revenue growth in this market segment. After a long period of deferred investment, we are now seeing increased capital expenditures. Pharma is our largest business and had a strong showing of 8% growth. Growth is very solid across instruments, services and consumables in both the biopharma and small molecule market segments. We remain very confident in achieving our 2018 pharma growth objectives. Academia and government sustained its recent trajectory with 11% growth. Growth was driven by strength in China and Europe. Food revenue grew 8% against a difficult compare of 11% in Q1 2017. Europe growth led our strong results with broad-based strength across instruments, services and consumables. Diagnostic and clinical revenue grew 5% as expected, led by strong demand for companion diagnostics and pathology products. Environmental forensics grew 14%. Our forensic business was particularly robust driven by U.S. government purchases. Environmental growth remained healthy with solid demand for GC, GC/MS and ICP/MS. Geographically, China led the gains with strong high teens growth. Europe and the Americas delivered healthy high single-digit growth. Looking at the highlights from our business groups, the Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group delivered core revenue growth of 11%, fueled by double-digit growth in major platforms led by mass spectrometry and cell analysis, demand in Europe and China and broad strength across end markets. On the M&A front, we announced the acquisition of Luxcel Biosciences. Luxcel has developed a portfolio of cell-based assay kits that allow researchers to evaluate cell metabolism and function on standard fluorescent plate readers. This technology is highly complementary to our Seahorse Bioscience offerings and further enhances our position in the fast-growing cell analysis space. Our internal focus on innovation continues to receive external recognition. The Ultivo Triple Quadrupole LC/MS system was recognized as one of the top 2017 innovations by The Analytical Scientist. And, (sic) Instrument Business Outlook recognized Agilent as the Company of the Year in the Life Sciences tools market for our innovation across the company. Agilent's CrossLab Group continued the strong performance with 9% core revenue growth. The Agilent CrossLab strategy, launched three years ago, continues to yield exceptional results. Our services business is focused on supporting customers to deliver greater lab efficiencies. As a result, services growth was strong across all regions and markets. We continue to introduce new capabilities for our customers. For example, we launched Agilent Care which extends and expands solution support beyond the traditional first 90 days of solution ownership. We also expanded the CrossLab Service Guarantee to our multi-vendor service business. If an Agilent instrument under contract cannot be repaired, it'll be replaced with the Agilent equivalent. This improves confidence in Agilent as a customer focused service provider for multivendor instruments. This guarantee differentiates Agilent from our competitors and in the eyes of our customers. Fueled by our innovation investment, our consumables business was strong across both chemistries and supplies. Recently introduced new products and biopharma applications are making a difference in our reported growth. Agilent's Captiva Enhanced Matrix Removal-Lipid technology is one example. The Analytical Scientist also recognized it as a top 2017 innovation. Our digital investments are delivering new capability to our customers. We have deployed groundbreaking e-commerce initiatives such as e-renewal of support contracts, making it easier for customers to do business with Agilent. The Diagnostics and Genomics Group also delivered strong core revenue growth of 8%. Demand continued to be healthy for our pathology products and companion diagnostic services. We continue to bring compelling new offerings to our customers. We shipped our first comparative genomic hybridization assay for diagnostic use in the U.S., GenetiSure Dx Postnatal Assay this quarter. We also made available to customers CRISPR activation and interference libraries. Targeted at the research community, these libraries use state-of-the-art validated gene targets that enable easy and a flexible implementation of targeted functional assays for the entire genome. Now, looking ahead, a few comments on our updated outlook for the rest of the year. We continue to take a quarter-by-quarter look at the business and stand ready to raise our full-year guidance as business conditions remain favorable. As such, we are now raising our full-year growth and earnings guidance with our strong Q1 in the books. Didier will share the specifics of the updated guidance, inclusive of the forecasted impact from the new U.S. tax law. While future market conditions are often difficult to predict, I can confidently predict that Agilent will outgrow the market in any encountered market conditions. A few closing comments before I hand off the call to Didier. First, I'm very pleased with our start to 2018. Following our stellar year in 2017, the Agilent team continued to deliver a differentiated customer experience, a great product portfolio and excellent operating results. The transformational strategies initiated we launched three years ago continue to work. We are maintaining our momentum. We are delivering on our measures of success to outgrow the market, improve operating margins and deploy capital in a balanced manner. Our One Agilent culture is built on a foundation of core values that puts the customer at the center of everything we do. Agilent's collaborative work environment enables the leveraging of the full power of our team. As a result, our team provides a superior customer experience while focused on operational excellence, a combination that allows us to produce results. We continue our commitment to our Agile Agilent program. This transformational initiative continues to streamline the company's operations and drive efficiencies. Our portfolio transformation and innovation engine continues to provide our customers with truly differentiated technology and solutions. Our innovation efforts are complemented by a focused M&A strategy. Our portfolio of offerings is second to none and will continue to strengthen. As evidenced in our track record of impressive results, Agilent has started 2018 with strength. The results speak for themselves. It's what gives me the confidence to tell our team the best is yet to come. Thank you for being on the call. And I look forward to answering your questions. I will now hand over the call to Didier. Didier?

Inc.: Thank you, Mike, and hello, everyone. As Mike stated, we are very pleased with our Q1 performance, well over the high end of our guidance. We delivered a core revenue growth of 9.7% versus a core revenue growth of 4.8% in Q1 of last year, and our adjusted operating margin at 22.5% was up 130 basis points versus Q1 of last year. Our EPS at $0.66 was $0.10 above the midpoint of our guidance and up 25% on a year-over-year basis. Currency had a favorable impact on revenues of $32 million and $6 million versus last year in guidance respectively and an impact on operating profit of $8 million and $0 million versus last year and guidance respectively. Our operating cash flow of $215 million was 85% higher than in Q1 of last year. And finally, we bought back $47 million worth of shares and paid $48 million in dividends. I will now turn to the guidance for fiscal year 2018. We are significantly raising the core revenue growth guidance of 4% to 4.5%. The new core revenue growth guidance is 5.25% to 5.75%. Also, the weakening of the U.S. dollar since our November guidance is expected to have a positive impact of $108 million on full year reported revenue. The total impact of the increase in core revenue guidance and of the currency tailwind is an increase in midpoint revenue guidance of $165 million. As a result, we now expect fiscal year 2018 revenues of $4.885 billion to $4.905 billion. Turning to EPS. We are also significantly increasing our November guidance of $2.50 to $2.56. The new guidance is $2.62 to $2.68 with $0.04 of the $0.12 increase due to currency. We're also raising our operating cash flow guidance from $970 million to $1.050 billion. There's no change to our expectation to buy back 2.7 million shares and to maintain our diluted share count at 326 million shares. Lastly, I'll provide some insights on the impact of the U.S. tax reform. Because our fiscal year started before the enactment of the new law, we will enjoy the reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate effective January 1, 2018. However, the negative effects, mostly the so-called guilty tax of the tax reform will not impact us until fiscal year 2019. However, because these benefits, net benefit of 2 to 3 points would only be temporary, we have decided not to reflect it in our fiscal year 2018 pro forma tax rate and now therefore maintaining the rate at 18%, as we expect this will be our tax rate in fiscal year 2019 and onwards. Finally, moving to the guidance for our second quarter. We're expecting Q2 revenues of $1.2 billion to $1.22 billion. The midpoint corresponds to core revenue growth of 4.25% on a difficult compare as Q2 of last year saw core revenue growth of 8.7%. Comparing guidance to the just finished Q1, Q1 fiscal year 2018's 9.7% core revenue growth benefited from an easier compare, in part due to the date of the 2017 Lunar New Year and a $20 million to $25 million carryover from Q4 2017 when we saw extended order to revenue conversions related to higher European and mass spec demand. Conversely, Q2 fiscal year 2018 projected 4.25% reflects the expected impact of the 2018 Lunar New Year in addition to a tough compare. As for EPS, we expect Q2 EPS to range between $0.61 to $0.63, a 7% year-over-year increase at midpoint. With that, I'll turn it over to

Inc.: So, I'll take the first part of that and then I know Patrick would just love to talk about what's going on with Ultivo. That's really a tough question for us to answer, and I'm not trying to dodge the question. We don't really have a quantitation along those lines. I would just say it's part of the story. We know that – if you've been noticing the growth rates of Agilent over the last three-plus years, the growth rates are accelerating. And what's been going on at the same point in time is our cadence of new product introductions has also been accelerating, because in the earlier phases of what we were calling then the new Agilent, we're basically redoing a lot of our product roadmaps. And now, we've got them redone and we're actually executing and delivering. So, I'd say it's a major contributor, but I really can't provide a level of quantitation on that. Patrick, would you like to share some insights on what's going on with Ultivo?

Inc.: Sure. Thanks, Mike. Yeah. So, on the Ultivo product, and to what Mike said, all these new products drive a lot of good momentum for us in our end markets. And if you take Ultivo, for example, which we started shipping last quarter, and I'm happy to report that it's well ahead of our own plan in terms of ramped volumes, and we're really pleased with the acceptance that we own in our own field by the customers. We get excellent feedback from the first installations out there, and it's driving a lot of excitement about our product portfolio. So, it's not only driving the Ultivo volume itself, it's also driving a lot of collateral business for us in the LC/MS business. And I think this pipeline of new products that we have launched over the last two years is a major contribution for us, in our trajectory right now, we're taking market share.

Inc.: And, Patrick, if I remember our conversation from this morning, it's both in our expectations relative to unit growth as well as price per unit.

Inc.: Great. And then in chemical and energy, I was wondering if you could just give us an update in terms of what's built in the guidance for 2018. Obviously, the macro picture continues to be robust. In 2Q, is there anything Lunar New Year-wise that we need to consider there? Just, thanks, any feedback would be great.

Inc.: Yeah. Let me make a few comments here. So, there is somewhat of a Lunar New Year. And I told Didier earlier, so I'd hope at one point in time one quarter I won't have to talk. Every year, we seem to talk about Lunar New Year, but this is a reminder for the audience. What happened here is the way the Lunar New Year fell this year, many customers actually wanted shipments of products before they left for the holiday. So, we had some revenues that we thought were going to be in the second quarter that actually showed up in China in the first quarter. On the chemical energy, I wouldn't say that's material at the company level, however, but there's a portion of the business that's impacted. We think about the overall guide for the year, I think we're probably – if you think about our guide, the midpoint of 5.5%, I think you could probably put us 6%, 6-plus-percent, 6%, 6.5% for chemical and energy. And, again, we're expecting a continuation of the momentum, albeit we're starting to go into a period of tough compares, because, as I mentioned in my call, it's now been four quarters in a row of double-digit growth. And now I have to compare my growth against those hot numbers. But, again, the market environment continues to be positive in chemical and energy, and we're kind of in the 6-ish range for the year.

C: Hey, guys. Two questions for you. First, Mike, just was wondering if you could comment at all about the kind of pricing and promotional environment of late in some of your analytical instruments. Are you seeing any changes as it relates to pricing either from some raw material inflation or just from a competitive standpoint? And then I guess secondly, it kind of goes along with that. You made the comment that you feel like you're outgrowing the overall market. Just was wondering, is there any particular areas of notable strength that you feel like you're really outgrowing the market as it relates to the different product categories you're in?

Inc.: Yeah, sure. Happy to address both questions. So, there's been a lot of talk about the inflation, inflationary concerns. And it's put a drag on the market, as you know, at the time of release, introduced a level of volatility in the market we haven't seen for a while, but we're not seeing that in our market. So, of course, the markets are very competitive. There're certain competitors who tend to focus more on price than we do. But, Patrick, I think it's pretty fair to say that we're really not seeing a lot of real changes in discounting practices or pricing structures in the marketplace. And that's why I'd actually asked – I pointed out earlier, for example, in our new product category that we just introduced, we're actually doing better on the ASP side than we had actually anticipated. So, we're feeling pretty comfortable about where the price points are. (30:47)

C: I want to save Valentine's Day for other people, but regarding where you are in the stage of your operating margin expansion, can you detail some of the efforts ahead and are you in inning one or two or three of that margin expansion program? And then secondly, regarding I know CrossLab has been part of your strategy to take share. What's your visibility? Is this the multiyear share gain still ahead for you?

Inc.: Yeah, what I'm going to do is, I'll take – by the way, thanks for the comments, Paul. I'm going to go ahead and take the first question. And Mark, if you could pick up the second question on ACG's longer term outlook. So, in terms of the margin expansion, we were really just delighted to see the 130 basis points of improvement in Q1. And as you may recall, we had a bogey we had put out last year to hit 22%. And I told us, listen, that's just a milestone along a longer journey of continued margin improvement. So, fundamentally, we think that we can continue to improve operating margins about a 35% incremental moving forward. And then to your question, we have some real specific programs lined up. So, I mentioned in my remarks about our Agile Agilent program and we're still finding ways to simplify the company, streamline the company. A lot of the focus now is in our back office operations as well as how we handle the incoming orders from customers. We have still a very manual process. And we think that we can really automate that, and we have what we call a touchless transaction initiative inside the company. And, again, I think it leads to more seamless customer experience and increases our velocity of transactions we handle. And we don't have to continue to add people at the same rate as revenue. So that's one area of focus for example. The second area, and I think is actually much more significant in terms of P&L impact is the initiatives that we have underway in our order fulfillment organization. So, the evolution of that was phase one was really about moving products into lower cost geographies . And now phase two is really heavily focused on three aspects, which is, one, is focusing on the material costs for the company which last time I looked was well over $900 million of purchases. We're in the midst of a major transformation of our procurement organization and how we engage and work with suppliers. And it's already starting to translate into some lower costs, while maintaining – or in some cases, even improving quality. We have a major initiative of value engineering, where we basically use our engineering prowess to reengineer certain components for lower cost while sustaining improvement of performance of the product. And the last area is logistics where we continue to find ways to lower cost. And you may have caught a recent announcement, if you follow the local news in Tennessee where we have made a major move to insource logistics from FedEx in Tennessee. So that will also be one more example of things we're doing in the supply chain to lower cost. And then the third thing I would just say is, in general, across the entire company we have this continuous process improvement mindset where we continue to find ways to streamline what we do to make it more efficient and make people's work inside the company more enjoyable while also having the great benefit of doing a better job for our customers, and obviously the P&L. So, I think those things are sustainable. I think we're still in middle innings, if you will, on this. We haven't run out of ideas and we think we continue to sustain this performance. Mark, in terms of sustaining performance, perhaps you can share with Paul and the audience your thoughts about the long-term growth prospects for

Inc.: Thanks, Mike, and thanks Paul for the question. Obviously, we're very pleased with our ongoing very consistent high single-digit growth performance. And we're confident in our ability to grow. And it's not just from a market share gain perspective, it's also bigger account penetration into our current accounts and also portfolio expansion. And Mike alluded to this at the beginning of the call, what's fundamentally been a growth driver for us. And we saw accelerating growth throughout the remainder of 2017 and now into 2018 has been our consumables portfolio. This started well over a couple years back. And there's never going to be a single big product area inside our consumables business that that'll drive top line, but over the course of FY 2017 we added over 1,000 new products into our portfolio. And as you probably can guess, those then get pushed through our channels, our expanded e-channel reach and then ultimately they have long-term annuity streams that in many cases last over a decade. So, I'd say across the board, if we look at it from our enterprise business, our instruments service business and our consumables business, we continue to see great opportunity to continue to grow across those dimensions that

Mullen: Thanks, Alicia. Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us on today's call. Before I discuss the Q2 financial highlights with you, I'd like to first welcome Jacob Thaysen and Sam Raha to the first earnings call in their new roles. Most of you know Jacob from his former role as the President of Agilent Diagnostics and Genomics Group. He now is transitioned into a new role as the President of our Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group. Sam is replacing Jacob as the new President of Agilent's Diagnostics and Genomics Group. Sam, as you may recall, rejoined Agilent a year ago as Senior Vice President of Corporate Strategy and Business Development. Both Jacob and Sam have extensive backgrounds in life sciences, wide industry knowledge and connections. Both are highly experienced at building and leading large organizations. Agilent is fortunate to have a deep leadership bench to draw upon to fill these two roles. Now let me turn to our Q2 financial performance. I can report that the Agilent team delivered another strong quarter. Our momentum continues. Our core revenue growth of 4.3% is at the midpoint of our guidance. Our adjusted EPS of $0.65 exceeded our expectations and is above the high end of our guidance. Our adjusted EPS is up 12% from a year ago. We delivered adjusted operating margin of 21.9%. On a currency adjusted basis, this is our 13th quarter in a row of improving operating margins. After two strong quarters to start the year, our core growth now stands at 7% with adjusted operating margin of 22.2% and adjusted EPS of 19%. I'm making some references to our first half results as Lunar New Year had a material impact on the timing of our reported revenues. In Q1, our Chinese customers requested deliveries earlier than anticipated. As a reminder, this pulled in approximately $10 million of revenue from Q2 into our first quarter. In Q2, we also estimate that the reduced number of selling days due to Lunar New Year had a negative impact of close to $10 million on our ACG annuity business. These two factors reduced Q2's reported company growth by 2 percentage points. Back to our Q2 results and turning to our end markets. Pharma, our largest business, continued a strong showing with 8% growth. Strength in mass spectrometry, consumables, services and genomics led the results. Growth was strong in both the biopharma and small molecule market segments. We remain very confident in achieving our 2018 pharma growth objectives. Our chemical and energy market revenues grew 5%, in line with our expectations and against a difficult compare of 14% growth last year. The global chemical and energy market environment remains favorable although we noted a slight pause among our U.S. customer base, which may be attributable to some concerns about trade policies. We grew 2% in academia and government, driven primarily by strength in LC/MS, cell analysis and our CrossLab services and consumables business. Diagnostics and clinical grew 3%, led by strength on our reagent partnership and genomics business and offset continued weakness in the U.S. pain management market. Food revenue was down 1%, reflecting initial impact of the Chinese government reorganization of the food safety ministries. On March 21, the Chinese government announced the creation of the National Market Supervision Administration, NMSA, consolidating many previously independent agencies, such as AQSIQ, SFDA and SAIC into one market supervisory agency. This has resulted in a temporary slowing of new instrument purchases as ministries are being consolidated and decision makers are being clarified. We expect the reorganization will take as long as 1 year to be completely finished, with expected slowdown of six to nine months in new instrument purchases. Environmental and forensics grew 2%, driven by strong gains in our global forensics business. In March, the Chinese government also announced some changes to the structure of the environmental ministries. These changes, however, are not as large as those for the food market ministries. While we did see some slowdown in new instrument purchases, we expect business to return to higher levels of growth in the next quarter or 2. Geographically, the Americas and Europe grew strongly with high single-digit growth. China was flat in Q2 due to the timing impact of Lunar New Year and the recently announced changes to the government food and environmental ministry agencies. For the half, our China team delivered a strong 9% core growth. Now I'll cover some of the highlights from our business groups. The Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group delivered core revenue growth of 3%. Growth in chemical and energy remained robust, offset in the weakness in the food testing market. From a product perspective, we saw strength in LC/MS, cell analysis and ICP-MS. Our new LC/MS, Ultivo, continues to be well received by the market and performed ahead of our targets. On the M&A front, we announced the acquisition of Advanced Analytical Technologies, Inc. Agilent is known as an innovator in capillary-electrophoresis-based instrumentation, and this acquisition will add complementary technologies to our portfolio. The regulatory review is underway. After the quarter end, we also now plan to acquire Genohm, which closed today. Genohm is a developer of highly differentiated, on-premise and cloud-based software solution for laboratory management. The Genohm team would join Agilent as part of our LSAG group. Customers are looking to do more with their data. By integrating Genohm's platform into our OpenLAB portfolio, Agilent and its OpenLAB value proposition encompass the management of all the context and content in the lab. We continue to build out our cell analysis business. In collaboration with BioTek Instruments, we announced a new integrated solution that combines cellular metabolic balances and imaging technologies. This collaboration provides new capabilities to our Agilent Seahorse analyzers, which help biologists measure cell activity in real time. Agilent CrossLab Group continued its consistent, outstanding performance with 7% core revenue growth, gains across our major end markets led by double-digit growth in pharma and academia and government. Performance was balanced across consumables and services. China delivered double-digit growth, and all other geographies grew in mid- to high single digits. During the quarter, we made progress on our mission to prove both the science and the economics of our customers' laboratories. We introduced an innovative and extremely stable new GC column that is receiving a very positive response from customers. ACG service has expanded to Agilent-enabled services pilot to include additional platforms across Agilent. The pilot is aimed at improving the customer onboarding experience by shortening their time to value after they purchase our solutions. We also opened a new Global Solution Development Center in Singapore to meet the increasing demand for integrated end-to-end solutions. Our online capabilities continue to gain momentum. Our China online business has seen double-digit growth since the beginning of the year. And our China WeChat services program has attracted more than 13,000 active customers since its roll-out at the end of last year. The Diagnostics and Genomics Group delivered core revenue growth of 4%, as expected, led by strength in our genomics business. On the innovation front, we introduced several new products this quarter. Our launch of HRP Magenta for the Dako Omnis, Agilent's flagship instrument for immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, allows pathologists to more easily visualize cancer in skin and lung tissues. We continue to expand our portfolio of in situ hybridization probes with the release of 7 new probes for Omnis to maximize our differentiation in automated ISH staining. On the genomics side, we announced -- we enhanced our industry-leading target enrichment portfolio for next-gen sequencing. Our recent introduction of the SureSelect All Exon V7 is being well received by customers as it improves both performance and cost effectiveness. On the genomics informatics front, we released a new module for the Alissa Clinical Informatics Platform. This new module further simplifies informatics processes and accelerate timed results for our customers. We continue to invest for future growth. We signed a definitive agreement to acquire the remaining shares of Lasergen and close the acquisition on May 7. As many of you may recall, we made an initial investment in Lasergen in 2016 for a 48% ownership stake. This acquisition brings into Agilent a powerful sequencing chemistry and a world-class group of scientists and engineers dedicated to bringing our integrated clinical workflow solution for molecular diagnostics to the market. We are very excited to have the Lasergen scientists and engineers on the One Agilent team. We expect to invest about $35 million per year to deliver our molecular clinical workflow solution to the market in 2020. Now let me provide a few remarks on where we are in our journey at Agilent and our outlook for the rest of the year. The Agilent team continues to execute, and our momentum remains. We are right where we want to be for the first six months of the year. We delivered strong growth while improving operating margins and deploying our capital on a balanced manner. Once again, our EPS growth is in the double digits. Our R&D innovation engine continues to strengthen our portfolio. We're all excited of the new capabilities through M&A. We believe this combination of organic growth-driven investments and complementary M&A, together with our execution capabilities, will deliver continued strong growth relative to the market. For the past three years, our focus has been on building the company's foundation, a foundation that will leverage the One Agilent company culture, innovation and execution capabilities to generate above-market growth and earnings expansion. Our platform for top line and earnings growth is now in place. We are delivering. When we're rebuilding the company, I also want to focus on making the company more agile and responsive to our market environment. Looking forward, we continue to proactively assess market forces and moving the agile manager to capture most promising opportunities. As you know, our two largest end markets are pharma and chemical and energy. Through the first half this year, our pharma performance has been above our expectations and we are raising our full year pharma outlook. Our full year guide for the chemical and energy market business remains unchanged. We expect a strong mid to high single digit growth. Geographically, we are bringing down our expected full year growth rates in China to about 7% as a result of the expected pause in businesses from the realignment -- realignments of the government agencies. At the same time, we remain confident in the strength of our European and Americas business and have raised our full year outlook for these geographies from the Q1 guide assumptions. While there are some end market and geographic give-and-take, our overall model remains intact. Following the significantly raised guidance last quarter, we are reaffirming our full year core growth guidance and earnings guidance, inclusive of currency headwinds and increase in our molecular clinical workflow offering. The Agilent team is confident, energized and excited about our future, our next phase of growth and delivery of results. We are looking forward to sharing more about what is behind this outlook in our upcoming Analyst and Investor Day. Thanks for being on the call and we look forward to answering your questions and seeing you in June. I will now hand off the call to Didier, who will share more insights on our Q2 financials and updated outlook. Didier?

Hirsch: Thank you, Mike, and hello, everyone. As Mike stated, we delivered another strong performance this quarter and year-to-date. For the quarter, our core revenue growth of 4.3% was in line with our guidance, and we over delivered on operating margin and earnings per share. Our core revenue growth would have been more than 1 percentage point higher if not for ICP-MS shipment delays and the recently announced reorganization of Chinese government ministries. Our adjusted operating margin of 21.9% was 40 basis points above the implied guidance, and EPS of $0.65 was $0.03 above. Further adjusting for currency, the operating margin was 22.4%, i.e. 30 basis points above last year and as highlighted by Mike, represented our 13th quarter of increased year-over-year operating margin. We delivered $303 million in operating cash flow. During the quarter, we bought back 674,000 shares of Agilent stock for a total of $46 million and paid $48 million in dividends. I'll now cover the guidance of fiscal year 2018. We are maintaining our core revenue growth guidance of 5.5% even as we anticipate that the reorganization of Chinese government ministries may push out about $20 million of revenues into fiscal year '19. We are also maintaining our EPS guidance of $2.65 while absorbing $22 million or $0.06 for FX and our technology investments in Lasergen and Genohm. Regarding Lasergen, we forecast to spend $15 million this second half and about $35 million in both fiscal year '19 and fiscal year '20 when we plan to commercialize our solution. There is no change to our operating cash flow guidance of $1.05 billion and CapEx guidance of $200 million. I'll now turn to the guidance for our third quarter. We expect Q3 revenues of $1.185 billion to $1.205 billion and EPS of $0.61 to $0.63. At midpoint, revenue will grow 4.3% on a core basis.

Bruin: The operating margin guide, it's - for the year, it's down about 20 bps. Is that FX and the diluted impact of the acquisitions, is that what's going on there?

Muken: Good afternoon, guys. I just want to be clear on sort of the sequential headwinds, Q1 to Q2, and then sort of the jump-off from there because I think you said a couple of different things. So we had, obviously, the New Year shift. We had the day shift in the quarter, and then it seems like there was also something you said on ICP-MS. So just help us. Versus the original plan, what were the actual components of the delta that affected this Q? And it seems like the only thing coming out of this Q that's updated new, other than maybe the developed markets are better, is sort of China net worse because of food. I just want to make sure

Hirsch: Yes, let me take that one, Ross. It's -- you are absolutely correct. The Lunar New Year was -- impact was obviously already reflected in our guidance as well as the very tough compare. Remember that last year, we had 9% core revenue growth; and the year before, 8%; and also the fact that last year, we had $7 million of settlement with our -- within our DGG organization. What is new versus the previous guidance are the shipment delays on ICP-MS and the reorganization of the Chinese government ministries. So only those 2 factors, which take away about 1 percentage point of our growth, we have not included in our previous guidance.

Mullen: Sure, I'll take that one. So I think the chemical and energy market continues to offer the biggest upside for the business. So we've already raised the outlook in pharma, and maybe we could do that again. But I think both the big end markets for the -- for Agilent are very solid with potential upside in chemical and energy. And that's why I mentioned the -- some of the noise. So as soon as we can get some clarity on trade policy, I think that will -- really will calm things down. And if that happens fairly soon, I think it would be really good news for us in this space. So I think the chemical and energy market offers the biggest upside for us. And then although we're trying to take a very objective outlook on China, maybe the -- it's always hard to predict how quickly these things happen. We painted what we think as sort of, if you will, a longer tail scenario, but we could actually find a move through the process much more quickly. So I think that might be an area where you could see some upside relative to our guide assumptions.

Beuchaw: Okay. And then two quick ones for the DGG line. One is, I wonder if you could give us an update on the time lines for the capacity ramp in Colorado. And then, two, could you speak to the trends that you're seeing on immunotherapy assays, PD-1, PD-L1 assays, given all the enthusiasm out there now for TMB testing as a diagnostic approach for IO?

Mullen: Thanks. I'm glad we had a chance to be able to point to other members of the team for a couple of questions. I'm actually going to pass this over to Jacob in your old role. And what I would just say, to start things off, is we just completed recently a review of the factory build-out in February. And I think we have the latest information.

Thaysen: Yes, absolutely. So thanks for that. And again, a reminder that we see a very strong market in the NASD business, the nucleic acid solutions for API business. And so we're very confident that we will have a -- continue to have strong growth. And as you also reminded ourselves about this, Steve, is that we are in a situation where we have more demand than we have capacity. So we are now building out and we've done that for a few quarters now but building, and it's very impressive to see the site coming along out in Frederick out -- close to the Boulder site. And we're still progressing according to our plan, and we'll expect to have products coming out here in basically a year from now.

Schenkel: Yes, okay. So then a broader guidance question. Your reaffirmed guidance assumes you maintained a 4% to 4.5% year-over-year growth rate for the remainder of the year. If we look at 1-year comparisons in the two year stacks, it seems like you're assuming that growth moderates a bit relative to recent trend. In spite of actually sounding pretty good on most fronts, are you baking in a little more cushion than you have recently to account for unforeseen surprises just given all the incremental uncertainty in a couple of areas that you described in your prepared remarks?

Mullen: That's probably somewhat of a fair assumption. I think that what Didier and I are trying to do is we try to guide in a way that will accommodate if we have a surprise or two. And look at what happened this quarter. We were able to beat our EPS guide and the consensus on the EPS side, but we hadn't seen the ICP-MS shipment delays or the reorganization of the Chinese food ministries. So we're able to accommodate those within the guide. So that's our philosophy. And I think we're hoping to be able to set up the second half so, if something else would happen to occur that we hadn't seen coming, that there's room in there for us to absorb it.

Schenkel: Okay. That's great. And maybe one last one. There were a lot of timing dynamics in the quarter. Oil prices may be working in your favor. Trade policy uncertainty may be causing things to take a little longer than maybe before. With all that in mind, any chance you'd provide some directional commentary on order trends, book-to-bill, anything like that?

Knight: Hey Mike, could you talk a little more in granularity about where you're heading with this operating margin, like specific actions? I think your COGS program, you've been working on that, what, the last year or is it longer? What other initiatives do you -- are you working on? And then I guess layering on that, Didier, are you leveraging your manufacturing to stay at that 30% incremental operating margin as well?

Mullen: Yes. Thanks for the question, Paul. And Didier and I are going to go through this in a fairly high-level detail when we see all of you, hopefully, in June. But conceptually, we'll be doing -- this has been a multiyear phase program with different areas of prioritization and focus. And the message that we're going to deliver in June and I'll share right now is there is still more programs behind the numbers. So when we talk about the margin expansion, it's not just a hope and a dream. There actually is something behind it. And the something behind it, to your question, Paul, would be really very heavy work in the -- or the fulfillment area, manufacturing, particularly focused on material costs, supply chain, value engineering will be big movers for us in terms of reducing our ongoing material costs. We also have initiatives around how we manage our pricing and discounting. If you -- we think we've got room there in terms of how we think about the pricing and discounting. And then we're also making some major investments in our R&D systems that we think will allow us to come to market more quickly. And then from a cost standpoint, take a lot of costs out of our platform cost because we're going to force the sharing of common components across all our divisions where historically, our divisions have operated fairly independently on an R&D side. Didier, anything else I missed there?

Knight: And then last, Mike. On academia at plus 2%, where do you think it will shake out for the year? 2% seems kind of below market right now.

Mullen: And then relative to, Steve, your question on the Ultivo. So if you remember, the initial value proposition, which was the , this high-performance instrument in a very small footprint and easy-to-use instrumentation, rugged. So -- and it's stackable. So that value proposition, which we thought would resonate with customers but you're never 100% sure until you actually get product out in the market. So -- and as you can imagine, very much like we've seen with the Intuvo, which is -- it's so different that often, customers are saying this really works as advertised. And yes, it's working as advertised. So I think what's been happening here is the value proposition we thought around the new workflow for the customer, now we've been able to prove that it actually performs as intended. We've really been getting a nice uptake. And again, I think this goes to our ability to really understand what it is that customers want and really how to help them with their -- both their science but also the business operation side of their lab.

Willoughby: Okay. Then if you don't mind, if I could squeeze in one more follow-up. The Chinese ministry-related delays or, I guess, cutbacks, did that have any impact here in 2Q? Or is that -- the $20 million of push out is that just a second half phenomenon?

Mullen: No. We think about $5 million or so is what we estimated in Q2 and then the other $15 million in the second half.

Willoughby: Okay. So you've got $5 million from that and then another $7 million to $10 million of ICP-MS delays as well in China?

Souda: Yeah. Thanks, Mike. I had a question -- I was just trying to understand -- not sure if it was covered. In terms of weakness in pain management, my understanding was the reimbursement was already lowered here some time ago. Was there another downtrend? Or what's driving this weakness here? And could you size that business for us?

Rodriguez: Thank you, Amanda, and to everybody on behalf of the management team for joining us today. If you have any questions, please give us a call in

Mullen: Thanks, Alicia. Hello, everyone. Thanks for joining us on today's call. Before I discuss the Q3 financial highlights and our updated outlook I'm pleased to have Bob McMahon join the call. Bob is an excellent choice for Agilent’s next CFO and a very capable successor to Didier. Bob brings a strong track record of leadership to our team. Many of you already know Bob from his previous role as CFO of Hologic. He officially assumes the CFO role beginning September 1. As Didier hands of the baton, he will serve in an advisory capacity until his retirement at the end of October. Bob and Didier are working together to ensure a smooth transition. I first met Bob over a coffee in Palo Alto where we shared our perspectives on business and company culture. We had an important conversation about values and their importance in business. I knew immediately that Bob would be a great fit for the Agilent culture and of course his management style and business acumen are a perfect match for our approach to creating shareholder value. Bob has joined Agilent at an exciting time. I'm confident he'll help us lead the next phase of Agilent growth. While I'm very excited to have Bob join the Agilent team I will greatly miss Didier's partnership and counsel. He has played a key role in the transformation of the company and our excellent business results. It's important for the CEO to have a very capable CFO. I couldn't have asked for a better partner. So thank you Didier. You will be missed by me and our Agilent team. Now, let me turn to our Q3 financial performance. The Agilent team delivered another strong quarter with both growth and earnings exceeding our expectations. Our core revenue grew 6% and is above the high-end of our guidance. Our adjusted EPS of $0.67 is $0.04 above the high-end of our guidance despite currency headwinds since our last guide. This is a 14% increase from a year-ago. We delivered an adjusted operating margin of 22.6%, which is an increase of 110 basis points from a year-ago. This marks our 14th consecutive quarter of improving our core operating margins. Let's take a closer look at our results by our end-markets. We continue our strong Pharma performance with 8% core growth. This is against a tough compare as we grew 10% in Q3 '17. We see strength across all our business groups with particularly strong performance in mass spectrometry, Cell Analysis, CrossLabs consumables and services and genomics. Growth remains robust in both the biopharma and small molecule market segments. Our Chemical Energy market revenue grew 12%. We are quite pleased with this strong growth, again against a difficult prior-year compare of 10%. Ongoing market investment remains positive. This is in spite of tariff rhetoric and retaliatory policies you'll be hearing in the news. From a product perspective, strength in spectroscopy, GC, CrossLabs consumables and services is driving this result. Geographically strong gains in China and Europe are leading the overall global growth. Revenue grew 3% in academia and government in line with expectations, strong performance from Cell Analysis, molecular spectroscopy, ICP/MS and CrossLabs services and consumables are driving the results. China and the rest of Asia are delivering double-digit growth in this end-market. Diagnostics and clinical revenue grew 5% led by strength in genomics and our reagent partnership business. This offset continued challenges in the U.S. Pain Management market. Food revenue declined 1%, strength in the Americas is being offset by declines in Europe versus a tough compare of 35% growth rate last year, and as expected, China instrument sales were also down this quarter. Environmental forensics is flat this quarter. Forensics growth was offset by the expected temporary slowing of instrument sales in China environmental. Geographically, let me first start with an overview of China. Our overall China business remains strong, growing 10% this quarter. Strength in China is being driven by double-digit growth in our two largest end-markets, Pharma and Chemical and Energy. Our CrossLab and DGG businesses also grew by double-digits. We continue to expect healthy overall market conditions. This is more than offsetting any temporary slowing of instrument sales in the food and environmental markets. The business is also strong in the Americas and the rest of Asia outside of China, with these two regions delivering healthy, high-single-digit growth. Europe was flat on a tough compare of 12%. In summary, we delivered a strong quarter with broad-based strength and stand out performances in the Pharma, Chemical & Energy, and China markets. Now, let's discuss results from our three business groups. The Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group delivered core revenue growth of 5%. This result is being driven by robust growth in the Pharma and Chemical Energy markets. From a product perspective, LC/MS, Cell Analysis and ICP/MS are leading the results. Ultivo our game-changing LC/MS triple quad continues to be well received. Geographically demand in America and China are leading the results. Let me share a few examples of how we’re executing our strategy to increase the depth and breadth of LSAG solutions portfolio. On the M&A front, we closed on the acquisition of Genohm in early May. Genohm complements Agilent informatics capabilities by adding laboratory management services. By integrating Genohm's LIMS platform into our OpenLAB portfolio, we can provide complete and integrated informatics solutions to our customers. Customers are very focused on informatics as a way to create insight and drive lab efficiencies. We are determined to lead in lab informatics. For example, last week Agilent released the first software supporting the new standardized data format called the Allotrope Data Format or ADF for short. This format was created by a consortium of pharmaceutical companies for the pharmaceutical industry. By standardizing the collection, exchange, and storage of analytical data captured in laboratory workflows, labs will be able to transfer and share data across platforms. We are proud to be the first company to develop and launch a commercial product to support this standard. We believe the adoption of standards like ADF will both shape the future of Lab Informatics and drive the adoption of our solutions. In addition, our internal LSAG innovation engine continues to deliver. We just released the Agilent Seahorse XF Real-Time ATP Rate Assay kit. This new and unmatched product will enable biologists to enhance their understanding of how live cells functions in real time. We are a leader in live cell analysis and continue to expand our offerings in this fast growing market. The Agilent CrossLab group continues outstanding performance with 8% core revenue growth. Gains across our major end markets led by double digit growth in chemical energy and strong results in pharma and Food. Performance was balanced across consumables and services. China led growth in all regions with mid teens growth. CrossLab is a key growth driver of the new Agilent. We are delivering on a mission to improve both the science and the academics of our customers labs. As we expand the strength in the CrossLab platform, we are creating more value for our customers and Agilent. For example, during the quarter, we announced two acquisitions to further expand our consumables portfolio. We acquired the business assets of Ultra Scientific, a provider of chemical standards and certified reference materials. On August 1, we also acquired ProZyme a provider of biopharma consumables for glycan analysis. As you know, glycan analysis is essential to development of biotherapeutic drugs and we will now directly participate in this fast growing biopharma market segment. We continue to invest and build on our leadership position in China. We recently opened a new logistic hub in Shanghai. This hub will enable faster delivery of parts supplies and consumables to laboratories. This is the first of five forward stocking locations we are establishing. This allows us to improve our service and the speed at which we support our customers. Our focus on digital investment is also delivering results in gaining traction. Our digital channel is growing at a record pace. For the first time ever over 50% of our consumables orders are now digital. China is leading the charge on this front. We are improving the customer buying experience, expand our customer reach and driving growth. The diagnostic and genomics group delivered core revenue growth of 5%. Excluding our NASD business, which declined as expected in the quarter the DGG group delivered core revenue growth of 7% against a tough compare. Let me further explain. As we've mentioned previously NASD revenues are batch based, which can make the revenue vary from quarter-to-quarter depending on timing of customer acceptance. As expected, the business declined in the quarter as is going up against a 45% growth rate in Q3 of last year. We expect the business to return to growth in Q4. As I mentioned, without this variability of reported revenue effect, this quarter, our core DGG business grew 7%. A few additional comments on our NASD business, I just returned from a visit with our team in Colorado. The capacity expansion underway will allow us to meet the growing demands for GMP grade oligonucleotide and CRISPR offerings. I'm pleased with our progress on our new facility and the strong market environment. For example, just last week, one of our customers, Alnylam Pharmaceuticals received FDA approval for Onpattro, a first-of-its-kind targeted RNA-based therapy to treat a rare disease. This is wonderful news for Alnylam and most importantly their patients. NASD remains a long-term growth play for Agilent and I'm excited about the future. Back to the overall DDG results. Strong results are driven by double-digit growth in genomics and strength in our reagent partnership business. Geographically outstanding growth in China and Japan drove the results. We continue to strengthen our ability to support the fight against cancer and other diseases. Burning Rock Dx received China FDA approval for their human lung cancer NGS detection kit. Agilent SureSelect reagents are used as part of this panel and our own PD-L1 companion diagnostics product received expanded USDA approval in cervical cancer. During the quarter, we completed the acquisition of AATI, Advanced Analytical Technologies Incorporated. AATI provides capillary electrophoresis base solutions for fully automated analysis of a range of molecules. This acquisition builds on Agilent's existing expertise for providing customers with a more comprehensive set of solutions, for NGS workflows and other applications. NGS's driving and will continue to drive strong growth of this new business to Agilent. With the addition of the AATI team, we create a new biomolecular analysis division with DGG. This new division now also includes our complementary microfluidics business, previously part of LSAG group. Didier's team has reflected this change in our current financials along with the company financial restatements. Now, let me provide a few remarks on where we are in the Agilent journey and our near-term outlook before turning the call over to Didier. Let me start with a few comments on tariffs. On the customer side, we are not seeing changes in customer buying behavior. On the duty front, we have planned for and have taken actions to partly offset the impact of expected increases in tariff-related duties. This proactive approach resulted in a small 500k impact on our Q3 results. In Q4, we expect an impact of approximately 3.5 million of incremental duty costs or approximately $0.01 of EPS which has been incorporated into our latest guidance. Looking into 2019, if the tariffs remain in place, we plan to aggressively reduce the remaining effect via potential changes in our prices and further adjustments to our Supply Chain. For some time, we've been on a path to increase shareholder value. We've been focused on delivering strong growth, while expanding core operating margins and putting our strong cash flow and balance sheet to work in a more impactful manner. Q3 results demonstrated our continued commitment to creating value for our shareholders and customers. We delivered another quarter of strong operating results while deploying our capital as committed. We returned $291 million in capital to shareholders through repurchasing $243 million of our own shares and paying out $48 million in dividends. We're also investing in the business. We closed four acquisitions, paying out $430 million in the quarter and announced two more acquisitions. This is a record number for Agilent and will further strengthen our company's foundation for growth. As we continue to aggressively strengthen our portfolio via the Agilent innovation engine and M&A, we are also continuing to execute on our agile Agilent customer experience and efficiency improvement initiatives. The twin drivers of our success continue to be a strong portfolio and a customer focused way of doing business. Now a few words about our outlook going forward. The Agilent team continues to capitalize on healthy end markets. We remain confident in our outlook. We are increasing our full year core growth and earnings guidance. Didier will walk you through the details, but we're raising our guidance for core revenue growth, operating margin and EPS. The Agilent team remains committed, confident and energized about our future. In our Agilent DNA is our team's ability to drive customer focus innovation coupled with operational excellence. It is this powerful combination that would continue to fuel our future growth and earnings expansion. Thank you for being on the call and I look forward to answering your questions. I will now hand off the call to Didier who will share more insights on our Q3 financials and guidance. Didier? <> Thank you, Mike, and hello, everyone. First, let me express my appreciation for Agilent employees' passion and professionalism in accomplishing the mission, creating shareholder value and finally for their support for all the years. With Mike's continuing leadership and Bob's contribution I'm convinced that the best is yet to come for Agilent. As mentioned by Mike, we delivered strong top and bottom line results, both on a year-over-year basis and versus our guidance. On the revenue front, we did our midpoint guidance by $40 million, after excluding currency headwinds of $11 million and contributions from our two recent acquisitions ATI and ULTRA Scientific of $5 million. Our core revenue growth of 5.9% was well over the midpoint guidance of 4.25%. Our adjusted operating margin of 22.6% was 110 basis points over last year's and 120 basis points over guidance and we delivered a core operating margin incremental of 55%. EPS were $0.05 about the midpoint of our guidance. During the quarter we bought back 3.76 million shares for a total of $243 million and paid $48 million in dividends. Finally, we repatriated $1.5 billion of our offshore cash. I'll now turn to the guidance for fourth quarter. We expect Q4 revenues of $1.24 billion to $1.26 billion and EPS of $0.72 to $0.74. At midpoint, revenue is expected to grow 4.7% on a core basis. Versus previous guidance, FX is projected to have a negative impact of $21 million on revenue and $2 million on the operating profit. Our 23.6% adjusted operating margin at midpoint will be up 100 basis points sequentially and up 30 basis points on a year-over-year basis even after funding the Lasergen R&D. The increase in tariffs effective early July is expected to have a negative impact of $3.5 million, as we have initiated actions to our supply chain. And those actions are complete mid-2019, we expect the net annualized impact to be approximately $9 million excluding potential pricing actions. Now to the guidance of fiscal year 2018. The Q4 guidance is expected to result in the following fiscal year guidance. First, at midpoint, revenue is projected to grow 6.1% on a core basis or 60 basis points over the previous guidance. The revenue guidance of $4.87 billion is $10 million over previous guidance including $22 million due to the acquisition of AATI, Ultra Scientific, and ProZyme, with currency having a negative impact of $32 million. Second, our EPS guidance of $2.70 at midpoint is up $0.05 on previous guidance and corresponds to a 14% year-on-year increase. Third, adjusted operating margin for the year is expected to be 22.6% or 60 basis points higher than in fiscal year '17. And fourth, our core operating margin incremental is expected to be 39% for the fiscal year, at the high-end of our operating model. With that, I'll turn it over to Alicia for the Q&A. Thank you, Didier. Brian will you please give the instructions for the Q&A?

Beuchaw: Hi guys. Thanks for all the help here and thanks for the time. I'd say first it's hard not to echo some of Mike's comments. Didier, really appreciate everything you've done being such a great partner for us, so

Beuchaw: And then just a couple of quick follow-ups before I jump back in the queue. One is Mike, you made a comment about customer behavior on tariffs and I appreciate the follow-up there. But it will be really helpful if you could spend another minute on it. It sounds like your perspective is that the tariff headlines aren't changing the way people really think about doing what they do. I wonder if you could give us even just some anecdotes on what you've done on that point? And then Didier it was a really good quarter in terms of core margin expansion, the incremental is really good. Any color on what it is that you've seen that made the quarter so strong on that front? And how should we think about seasonality there would be great.

Mcmullen: Let me take on the first question. So, when I have been out talking to the customer base, we talk to people in the pharmaceutical industry, we talk to people in the research space, whether it be in academia and in the private sector, they plan on -- they're taking a long term view of investments on purchasing our equipment, purchasing our solutions are absolutely critical for their enabling their growth plans if you will and research plans. So they're not at all distracted by the tariff discussion. As I mentioned on my last call, we have seen some cautiousness in certain aspects of the chemical energy market where they were a little bit slower to approve the deals, but still getting the deals approved. It's the same kind of situation we had last quarter, so no new changes in customer buying behavior. So this is coming directly from conversations I had with customers. So again, that gives us a lot of confidence about our outlook because despite all the noise and rhetoric out there, it really hasn't yet affected any of the actual buying behavior of customers. Obviously it's creating some work for us relative to adjusting our supply chain and production locations to mitigate the duty impact side of things, but in terms of customer buying behavior have not seen any real changes.

Hirsch: And then Steve, on your question on the core operating margin incremental you're right. It's been impressive at 57%. The reasons are multiple, we started off with last year's compare that was a little bit of a soft compare. We had the operating margin down a little bit sequentially from Q2. Then there was good operating leverage, good mix certainly the impact of all the Agile Agilent programs and we certainly don't expect to maintain such a high level of operating margin.

Mcmullen: But in all seriousness, I think going back to few some of the things that Didier outlined at the AID meeting in New York, where he said listen, our pipeline and our programs are as robust as ever in terms of really allowing us to work on the operating margin incrementals.

Peterson: Hey. Thanks. Mike I want to follow-up in some of the strength in China. Can you maybe talk about some of the puts and takes there? I think you called out environmental weakness in the slide, so maybe if you could talk maybe where there some softness. And then on the supply chain dynamics, can you maybe flush that out a little bit? I think you do some of the TC production there as well as in Delaware. So can you may be just talk about how you are thinking about potentially moving Supply Chain if you need to?

Mcmullen: Sure so happy to do so Tycho. So let's start with China. Again very important market for us and we were just delighted by the strength in the business, so if you look at the six end-markets we had strong growth in all but two and then we actually had foreshadowed this coming in our last call saying, hey we know there's some things happening relative to some realization -- ministries in the country nothing happened to us relative to the competitive side of the business. So we saw really strong, continued strong demand in Pharma, in Chemical and Energy, investments in Academia and Government hints back to some of the comments I made around tariffs. And as you may recall in our AID presentation, we talked about the opportunities we had with our CrossLab business and our DGG business, and you saw us starting to deliver on those promises with really strong double-digit growth in both of those businesses, and then relative to food and environmental we think it's a temporary situation as related to the instrument purchases. You have to keep in mind though that they will continue to buy consumables and services from us and we're just waiting to have the reorganization complete, the budgets finalized and then we know-how to follow the money where it's going to go because two things are really happening here. You've got the consolidation going on where new budgets are created, being created in a new consolidated set of ministries and then part of that money is also getting deployed to what they call tier 3 and 4 cities so we're following the money and we'll be ready to capture once it's there.

Mcmullen: Oh, yeah I forgot about that so relative to the Supply Chain, as I mentioned in my script, we took some actions actually in advance of the formal announcement of the tariffs, so we've already relocated our production for China-made products into our site in Wilmington Delaware and now we're in the process of moving aspects of the Supply Chain which is also subject to the tariffs, but we've already moved the production in some of the

Peterson: Okay. And then two quick follow-ups, for NASD you highlighted kind of just the inherent lumpiness in that business and the fact it'll return to growth in the fourth quarter. Can you maybe just talk about how we should think of the ramp there next year ahead of the capacity coming online?

Schenkel: Okay. All right. Thanks again. Thank you. And our next question will come from the line of

Donnelly: Great. Thanks. Just expanding on Tycho's question on supply chain given the tariffs and focused, could you just walk us through the import export dynamic in China, just looking explicitly kind of how much of the China revenues is being imported from the U.S. and may be where the majority of those revenues is being manufactured? And then kind of the same thing on

Mcmullen: Patrick after you're looking at both the incoming to China and from China to the U.S.?

Mullen: Great question, I saw that same article as well, and I have based on what we saw it was having no impact so we saw no hesitancy in customers or any signals from our field that things were different.

Mullen: Well, thanks, Alicia. Hello, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. Before I cover our financial results, I want to thank Alicia for her years of service, and wish her the best in her retirement. Alicia superbly led Agilent’s IR team for the past eight years. She has set a high standard for her professionalism, integrity, and transparency in her engagement with the investment community. Thank you, Alicia. You are the best and you will be missed by me. You can see this has been an emotional day for all of us and our Agilent team, and I am sure by the audience on today’s call. This quarter we are reporting our strongest quarterly results since the 2015 launch of the new Agilent. We are ending the year with a terrific quarter. Our revenues, profitability, and earnings per share are significantly ahead of expectations. Now, some of the specifics. Q4 revenues grew 9% on a core basis to $1.29 billion. This exceeded the high end of our guidance by more than $30 million. Double-digit, end-market growth in Pharma, environmental forensics, along with the continued strength in our chemical energy business are driving the results. Geographically, our China business is up sharply with 16% growth for the quarter. For the year, the Agilent China team delivered double-digit growth and achieved a major milestone crossing over $1 billion in business for the first time. Q4 adjusted operating margin is 25.2%, up 190 basis points from last year. This is our 15th consecutive quarter of the Agilent team improving year-over-year operating margins. Q4 adjusted EPS of $0.81 is $0.07 above the high end of our guidance. Compared to last year, this is an increase of 21%. In addition, we took advantage of marketing conditions to purchase $86 million in stock during the quarter. For the full year, stock repurchases stand at $422 million underscoring the confidence we have in our future performance. I am also pleased to report that the Agilent Board has just approved a new $1.75 billion share repurchase plan. This quarter, performance caps off an excellent 2018. Our strongest quarterly performance translates into full year core growth of 7.1%, our highest annual growth rate since the launch of the new Agilent. Total reported revenues grew to $4.9 billion. We continue to deliver improved profitability while investing for growth. For the year, adjusted operating margin is 23.1%, up 110 basis points over last year. Our earnings per share are up 18% for the year to $2.79. The numbers tell the story, a strong team delivering yet another stellar annual performance. Let’s now look at the quarter by business groups. Core revenue grew a healthy 9% for LSAG, our Life Science Applied Markets Group. Product strength is broad based, driven by mass spec, chromatography, and cell analysis. We continue to introduce innovative new products. We are strengthening the molecular spectroscopy portfolio with the launch of the Agilent 8700 Laser Direct Infrared Chemical Imaging System. This is a breakthrough in both chemical imaging and spectral analysis. We also introduced the Cary 3500 UV-Vis system, the first significant advancement in UV-Vis architecture in decades. We continued to build out our cell analysis business. We just closed the acquisition of ACEA Biosciences. ACEA is a provider of cutting-edge cell analysis instruments and will expand our cell analysis portfolio. The Agilent CrossLab Group delivered strong 9% core revenue growth. Demand was excellent across both services and consumables. We continue to invest in our portfolio and extending our customer reach. We completed the acquisition of ProZyme, expanding our offering in the biopharma marketplace. We also acquired our South Korean distributor. This acquisition expands our direct customer engagement and it further builds out ACG’s service business in the market. The Diagnostics and Genomics Group grew 5% on a core basis. Strength in our NASD and Genomics businesses drove the quarterly results. In a significant win, Agilent has been selected by Unilabs to be a Preferred Partner for their pathology business. Unilabs is one of the largest European diagnostic testing lab providers. This announcement is another strong testament to the advantages of Agilent’s expanding workflow solutions. Before I leave DGG, I want to provide an update on the construction of our new NASD API production facility. We remain on track for the initial production of GMP-grade APIs by the end of fiscal year 2019 with material revenue contributions in FY 2020. Overall, it was a great quarter capping off an excellent year delivered by the Agilent team. A few final comments before I turn the call over to Bob. Agilent’s shareholder value creation model is fully activated. First, we are executing on an innovation-driven growth strategy that is delivering. Second, we continue to focus on improving profitability with our “Agile Agilent” Initiatives. Finally, we are actively leveraging our balance sheet to drive acquisitions of fast-growing innovative companies while also returning cash directly to shareholders. We have transformed Agilent into a growth company and are focused on delivering superior earnings growth. We just delivered our highest growth and profitability since the launch of the new Agilent. Since then, our adjusted CAGR EPS is up 17%. Our business is also less cyclical today with non-instrument sales making up over 56% of our total company revenue. If economical challenges would arise, our business is now less dependent on capital equipment purchases. Looking ahead to 2019, while acknowledging current trade discussions, we are expecting market conditions to remain solid. The Agilent team is laser-focused on sustaining our strong growth into 2019 and beyond. We have momentum. I keep telling the Agilent team the best is yet to come. Thanks for being on the call, and I look forward to answering your questions. I will now hand off the call to Bob. Bob?

Mahon: Thank you, Mike, and good afternoon everyone. I am very pleased to be talking with you today on my first earnings call as Agilent’s CFO. Before I get started, I want to echo the comments Mike made and say thank you to Alicia. In my time here, she has been a great partner to me, and I truly wish her the best in retirement. She will be missed. Now moving on to the financials. In my remarks, I am going to provide some additional detail on revenue, walk through the fourth quarter income statement, touch on a few other key financial metrics, and then I’ll finish with our financial guidance for 2019. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results and percentage changes will be on a year-over-year basis. As Mike mentioned, we delivered a very strong fourth quarter to finish an excellent fiscal year. Revenue for the quarter was $1.29 billion with core revenue growth of 9% exceeding both our guidance and expectations. For the full fiscal year, our core revenue growth was 7.1%, a very strong performance. As Mike spoke to the Group’s performance for the quarter, I will provide some additional details around our end-market and regional performance. Overall, the market environment is positive and based on our channel reach and product offerings, we saw broad strength across most end-markets. Pharma, our largest end-market was up 14% with double-digit contribution from all business groups. Both the small molecule and biopharma segments performed well. Traditional areas of strength, as well as newer areas of strategic focus such as cell analysis and a strong performance at NASD contributed to the results. Chemical and energy grew an impressive 7% against a very strong comparison of 15% core growth last year. We continue to see positive ongoing market investment in this area. Balanced gains in both LSAG and ACG were driven by strength in spectroscopy, LC-MS, supplies and services. Demand for our materials characterization applications continue to drive robust ICP-MS growth. Environmental and forensics grew 17% ahead of expectations with good demand across major regions. Growth was balanced across both end-markets. Forensic saw notable demand for Cobalt Raman spectroscopy and environmental for LC-MS and ICP-MS. Academia and Government reported 10% growth as funding environment stabilized, while diagnostics and clinical grew 1% and food was flat as expected against a tough 10% comparison. Geographically, we also saw broad based strength. China grew by 16% accelerating from the 10% core growth we saw in Q3 and as Mike mentioned, passed the $1 billion mark in sales for the year in the fourth quarter. Other Asia and Japan grew by 12% and Europe and the Americas had solid mid-single-digit growth. In addition, we continue to be pleased with the revenue contribution as non-instrument revenue contributed 56% of the total in Q4. Looking forward, we see non-instrument revenue growth outpacing instrumentation driving an increasingly recurring revenue stream. Now turning to the rest of the P&L. Q4 gross margin of 57.8% increased 170 basis points compared to the prior year. This was due to product mix and volume, as well as our order fulfillment and supply chain organization continuing to do an outstanding job driving cost savings using our “Agile Agilent” approach. Operating margin including adjusting for the Keysight billings was 25.2%, up 190 basis points due to higher gross margins and top-line leverage on operating expenses even as we invested more in R&D. This led to non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.81 in the fourth quarter, an increase of 21% compared to the prior year and more than double the rate of revenue growth. Now before moving to FY 2019 guidance, I want to touch on a few additional financial metrics. We continue to generate very strong cash flows. This quarter, free cash flow was $336 million and for the year, we generated over $900 million in free cash exceeding our commitment. In Q4, we returned $133 million to shareholders buying back 1.3 million shares for $86 million and paying out $47 million in dividends. We also completed the ProZyme and Young In acquisitions. With Young In, we expanded our direct sales and service capabilities in South Korea. For the fiscal year, we’ve returned $613 million to shareholders, buying back 6.4 million shares for $422 million and paying out $191 million in dividends. As Mike mentioned, we closed a record number of acquisitions in 2018 deploying $516 million. We ended the year with $2.2 billion in cash, and $1.8 billion in debt and we just closed on ACEA Biosciences last week. So we are starting 2019 where we left off in 2018. All in all, we entered 2019 with health end-markets, good momentum in the business, and a very strong balance sheet. Now let’s turn to our non-GAAP financial results guidance for the full year and first quarter of 2019 beginning with our full year guidance. We expect 2019 to be a strong year overall, but before I get into the actual numbers, let me mention a few important points. First, we anticipate currency will be a headwind in 2019. Based on exchange rates as of the end of October, we expect currency will reduce reported sales growth in 2019 by roughly 220 basis points translating into roughly $110 million negative impact for the full year. For comparison, our 2018 reported sales growth benefited by 210 basis points from currencies. Now partially offsetting the currency impact will be a larger contribution from recent M&A including the recently closed ACEA Biosciences acquisition. And in addition, starting in fiscal 2019, we adopt a new accounting standard which changes how we present pension expenses and benefits on the income statement, in effect, reclassifying certain amounts to other income and expense. While this has no impact to net income, we do expect this will reduce forecasted operating margins in FY 2019 by roughly 40 basis points. As we move through the year, we will provide a restated 2018 to provide an apples-to-apples comparison. And lastly, we are taking a different approach in setting guidance ranges that include both upsides and downsides. So I would encourage you to model to the midpoint of guidance at this stage. Now for the full year, we are expecting revenue to range from $5.13 billion to $5.17 billion in fiscal 2019 representing core growth of 5% to 5.5% and associated reported growth of 4.4% to 5.2%. Currency is estimated to negatively impact growth by 2.2 percentage points with M&A contributing roughly 1.6 percentage points to 1.9 percentage points of growth for the full year. Now on to our EPS guidance. For the full year, we are forecasting a range of $3 to $3.5 per share adjusting for the negative currency, this translates to 9% to 11% growth in EPS and a 7.5% to 9.3% on a reported basis. Included in this guidance is roughly $4 million per quarter in tariffs. This is slightly higher than the estimate we provided last quarter and is related to List 3. A few other metrics as you build your models. Embedded in our forecast is modest operating leverage after accounting for the pension adjustment. We are also expecting the total of interest income, interest expense, and OI&E to be $10 million to $15 million in net expense inclusive of pension and Keysight billings. Guidance is based on a full year tax rate of 17%, down a point from 2018 and diluted shares outstanding of approximately $322 million, flat to Q4 of this year. We expect operating cash flow of between $1.1 billion to $1.15 billion and capital expenditures of roughly $175 million. As previously mentioned, the Agilent Board has authorized a $1.75 billion repurchase program and we plan at a minimum to offset dilution throughout the year. We also continue to look for M&A like ACEA and other recent tuck-ins and have the financial flexibility to be opportunistic in share buybacks as well. And finally, we have announced raising our dividend by 10% continuing a streak of double-digit increases providing another source of value to our shareholders. Now turning to Q1 guidance. For Q1, we are expecting revenue to range from $1.265 billion to $1.28 billion representing reported growth of 4.4% to 5.7% and core growth of 4.5% to 5.5%. Please remember that we are going up against a very tough Q1 comp last year where we grew 10% core. First quarter 2019 non-GAAP earnings are expected to be in the range of $0.71 to $0.73 per share which is roughly 9% to 12% ex currency and 7.6% to 10.6% reported growth. Now before opening the call for questions, let me conclude by saying, we are very pleased with the financial results and the continued hard work and focus of the Agilent team laying the ground work for future growth and as we enter 2019 with strong momentum.

Rodriguez: Thank you, Bob. James, will you now open the phone lines for the Q&A and provide the instructions?

Mullen: So, our growth in NASD is not only – does not only solely dependent on the

Willoughby: Hi, good afternoon. Thanks for taking my question. I guess a couple of things. First, just on tariffs, Mike. You made a comment about the $4 million a quarter, just being up slightly, just wondering is that including any impacts from pricing or supply chain as you doing as a potential offset?

Mullen: Oh, yes. Thanks, Steve, thanks for the clarifying question and Bob I am going to go ahead and take a shot on this and if you need of course correct me and please go ahead. But what we are planning to quantify was the actual impact of incremental duties thereafter all the mitigation efforts. That does not include anything else. We may be doing relative to pricing. So, that’s not a complete drag on the P&L. It’s all baked into the guide for next year, but we’ve also instituted some other broad based actions to mitigate that as well. But that was just trying to isolate the specific amount of the net incremental duties to the company.

Mahon: Yes. Thanks, Paul. And so, this year in FY 2018, we ended the year at roughly at 18% effective tax rate. We are guiding to 17% in FY 2019 and we are working on plans to continue to improve that going forward.

Donelly: Great, thanks. Mike, maybe one for you. We are seeing continued news flow in some of the bigger build outs chemical companies in China. Can you just talk through the market demand there? I know chemical and energy are the areas you’ve been pretty bullish on historically in that region. So, where are we in the process of some of those bigger projects building out capacity in GC, some of the other areas you act as a supplier in?

Mullen: Yes, Patrick. I am happy to share my insights here. So, I have been bullish on the growth prospects of China as it relates to the chemical energy markets for I think a good reason, because we have some pretty good insight in terms of the projects that are underway. And as I mentioned, I think in a prior call, a lot of this not only to support their economic growth, but also is, what they view as a element of national security as we continue to invest in the colder chemical plants to really reduce their dependency on natural – import of natural gas for example. So we’ve seen the projects they have a multi-year program. I think we are probably in the third or fourth inning of what those could be a multi-year build out of plant capacity. And this is really important for our GC business as you mentioned, Patrick that that’s actually is the tool of choice. And Jacob, I know you just got back from a trip to China and are you hearing the same things from the teams?

Thaysen: Yes, certainly, Mike. It’s really just a repeat that there are plenty of opportunity in China right now with the larger SPI installations coming in here also in 2019 and 2020. So I think, there are great opportunities in front of us also in that space.

Meehan: I want to keep it going on DGG the growth there in the quarter which is great. The first factor you laid out was that NASD was the largest year-over-year contributor. So I'm curious where you're finding incremental capacity at the old site and just update us on the timing related to the new capacity of the new site?

Mullen: Yes, so I might just go ahead and handle this one, you can jump in on it, but we brought in a new general manager probably about 24 months ago and really came in and looked at our existing facility and saw opportunities from we call our agile Agilent program, but from our process improvement we said, hey there is more that we can garner in terms of growth out of the existing facility by really changing some of the aspects of how we conducted the manufacture. I think we've been able to actually if you will squeeze more out of the existing sites than we had thought. And then relative to the status which is the same I think we're still on track for bringing this on online by the end of this fiscal year in terms of producing GMP grade material. The site construction is essentially finished. We're now in the midst of validation which is really quite a task given the scale of what we've constructed here, but still doing good.

Mahon: Yes, and Mike you said it all. We, operational excellence was in I think full order in Q1 and we're making really good progress for opening of our second facility.

Meehan: Great. And just to followup I guess on the second factor which was the pathology business the double digit growth seems like a nice acceleration there. Can you talk about, what you're seeing on the competitive environment and utilization of the instruments that are around in the field and maybe just finally, where do you think you stand with the question all out to that help in the quarter?

Schulte: Okay and then as we approach the Brexit deadline and given you uniquely have a month of that impact in your second quarter if the timeline holds. Can you just remind us of your exposure to the UK and any areas of your business that could be impacted by the exit?

Mullen: I think Bob, I recall it is about 4% of our total businesses in the UK from I discussed in the last year and the main flow through would be getting product into my main major impact I'll be getting product into the UK for - to our UK based customers and we actually have a series of contingency plans, we're actually already executing on which assumes a hard Brexit. So we're planning for worst case scenario which means making sure we have in country stocks and other things to help our customers with potential challenges getting in product through customs. We do have a relatively small factory in the UK for our Raman spectroscopy business, but we're in the midst of transforming that product into Malaysia. So I think from the outbound export side of things probably would be not a good start right Jacob?

Mullen: So I think the bottom line there is, I think we've got good plans in place. We're not expecting that to have a material impact in the quarter.

Willoughby: Hi, good afternoon. Two questions for you. First I guess just as it relates to tariffs, I heard you say you saw a $4 million impact in the quarter. I was just wondering if you were assuming the tariff to step up to 25% in your initial guidance there or what are you thinking about tariffs as of right now over the remainder of the year?

Mahon: Yes, great, thanks Steve. Yes, so we are assuming that it will ramp back up to 25% at the end of March and then for the rest of the year. And so, we built that into to our guidance. So if something happens there this - such a trade either gets delayed, that would be potential upside for us. I think more importantly just removing the uncertainty of what that looks like I think we'll free the market just in general and it's probably less about the dollars associated with the tariffs and more associated with just kind of clarity about what path we're going to be going forward.

Willoughby: Sure. That's helpful. And then secondly just on products, could you provide a little bit more color on kind of your GC portfolio now and with these new 88 systems kind of where the Intuvo offsets versus these newer systems. And then also just with this new Magnus system maybe how that fits into your existing genomic portfolio and what you're expecting out of that product over the rest of the year?

Thaysen: Yes, that's a good question and now we have - we really have three main solutions in the GC space. We have the Intuvo which really goes after the ultimate ease of use with hyperactivity especially combined with mass spec, so that's that great area for the routine use with Intuvo. Then we have the 8860 which is focusing more on a routine application which are more of the standard ones, but also demands some type of ease of use and allow us also to play in the midrange space. And then the 8890 which is the high - where we have customers requiring high flexibility and performance that needs very high requirements and performance in the space which is really HPI space and other elements that's where its more complex. So these are really the three areas we play it's all now based on the same core technology with smart connectivity and remote access and all those built-in health monitoring capabilities, so it fits very well together.

Raha: Yes, with respect to the Magnus, thank you for the question. Well, first of all what we're going to be providing the system is something that we don't have and actually there's very few solutions like it on the market specifically the customer is going to be able to start with a shared DNA and that's what they put into our automated prep system and what they get on the other end is a fully prepared library that's ready to go that they can load. And so, what that means specifically is we're doing both the library preparation and the target enrichment fully in an automated fashion in our Magnus system. Like I mentioned before, we're going to formally launch this next week at the AGBT conference and then we'll start taking orders immediately thereafter. But our shipments will be in a deliberate fashion starting in the June, July timeframe, making sure for our first set of customers we really get a lot of care to ensure the success that they would expect that we'd expect. So it is targeted to clinical labs and other NDS testing labs and I think we'll definitely see some impact of installs by the end of this year, but really a bigger impact in 2020.

Souda: The question I have is, I get the strong compare on chemical energy, but I just wanted to get a sense, I'm wondering if you saw any impact from customers waiting and knowing about 8890 and 8860 and holding back those purchases and having any impact in the quarter?

Mullen: So Puneet, I think you must have been listening very carefully to my comments, the slight, the scratching is coming through. So I kind of alluded to that which is and it's hard to put a quantitative number on it, but we clear things that happened which is, this product has been 10 years in the making, a decade in making I'd like to say and of course our customers knew it was coming and I think some may choose, as Jacob mentioned, to go with the 7890 right now because they are there they still want to see the new product, but we think that there was a quick uptake in 8090. So that may, I think that is part of the story, can't quantitate it, but also again one of the reasons why we were optimistic about our ability to get some good growth and back to growth in the chemical energy beyond what we saw in

Souda: Thanks, so we should expect this to come, I mean come in into the next quarter now that you're shipping this out?

Mullen: Yes, yes, yes, that in fact Jacob just dropped me a note the other day and we started shipping this week.

Souda: Okay great. And then Bob, just some I wanted to get a sense from you on, you commented about 57% being consumables recurring moving up by a point and sort of gross margin contribution there. I wanted to understand, now that you have had some time to look at the overall portfolio and the new products and Intuvos and 8890s and what's your sort of gross margin expectations sort of longer term, obviously these are, they have improving margin profiles, so I'm just trying to get a sort of a high level corporate view that you're seeing in gross margin improvement longer term?

Mahon: Yes, I mean I think if you look over the course of the last couple of years we've had significant gross margin improvement really through the great work that the operations team has been able to drive. And then also the pricing discipline that the commercial teams have been able to do as well as positive mix. This quarter you saw that moderate really because of the tariffs and if it weren't for tariffs we would've had I think some very good gross margin improvement. I think once we anniversary gross margin, the tariffs this year which would be in Q4 you'll start to see gross margins go back up for the things that you talked about as well as just the ongoing operational improvements that we have. We had guided to call it modest, call it 50 to 70 bps on a restated basis operating margin improvement, a combination of both gross margin and an operating expense improvement for the full year. In Q1, we were ahead of the game which is good news and a lot of that came through the operating expenses, but I would expect us to probably be about this range and probably be a little stronger in the back half of the year as we anniversary the tariffs on gross margin. But going forward, I would see us really focus on growth driving margin expansion in that 50 to 70 basis points being kind of evenly split between the gross margins and operating expense line.

Schenkel: Hi, this is Ryan out for Doug. Thanks for taking my questions. Another great Pharma quarter. Can you remind us what proportion of your Pharma revenues are now to large molecule customers? And contrary to recent quarters you didn't call out small molecule growth within Pharma. Can you talk about what you're seeing from those customers and is healthy growth within the small molecule segment finally slowing down a bit or is that a little premature?

Knight: And lastly, could you give us a refresh on Lasergen. Is that going after the diagnostics market, what will be their position?

Mullen: Yes, I think I know this one sort of go ahead and handle this one, but our strategy here is that right now we're a component supplier into the NGS workflows of some of our major competitors and have built a business in excess of $250 million. Our view is that ultimately we see a view where you need routine market that you are going to need to have a turnkey easy to use workflow solution. We have a lot of the components of that already and you may recall that from Sam's overview at our Analyst Day back last year. The missing piece was to actually have a sequencer. So our thoughts are not to compete box-to-box in the sequencer business, but really try to build the best workflow for that cancer diagnostics marketplace.

Arias: Hey Mike. On chemical and energy, just honing in on your comments on instrumentation, I'm curious where you would put penetration or replacement for the Intuvo at this point and if you'd be willing, what do you think could be the contribution either at the segment level or for the overall business?

Dhingra: All right. That wraps up the call for today. Thank you for joining. If you couldn't get to something because of the transmission issues or have any of questions, please reach out to us in the

Mullen: Thanks, Ankur, and thanks for joining our call today. Our Q2 results are mixed. On one hand, we continue to deliver strong growth in two of our three businesses. On the other hand, our LSAG business is experiencing unexpectedly soft market conditions. Despite revenue below our expectations, the Agilent team delivered solid earnings with EPS of $0.71 at the midpoint of our guidance. This represents 9% EPS growth over last year. We also delivered our 17th consecutive quarter of adjusted operating margin expansion. For the quarter, total revenues were $1.24 billion, representing 4% core growth. Let me break that down; performance was led by our Agilent CrossLab Group with core growth of 9%; our Diagnostics and Genomics Group delivered 6% core growth, while our LSAG business declined 1%. There were two key market factors observed in the latter part of the quarter that contributed to the LSAG revenue shortfall; first, we experienced a slowing of internal orders in China; the second factor is tied to more general slowdown in orders from big pharma. I'd point out that this slowdown became apparent to us at the beginning of April. Let me explain this in little more detail. In China, our overall business grew 3%, driven by double-digit growth in ACG. However, our LSAG business declined by 1% during the quarter. There are two major factors impacting our China LSAG business. First, the recovery in the food market has not yet materialized. Government labs have not yet resumed purchasing at the levels we have previously seen. Second, the Chinese government's 4 + 7 initiative to lower generic drug prices is having a greater than expected impact on small molecule pharma. Consequently, we're lowering our revenue expectations in China this year. China does, however, remain an important long-term growth market for us. The other factor affecting LSAG growth is moderating global demand in small molecule pharma. We've seen several large accounts delay and replace in purchases. In contrast, the small molecule pharma would continue to see strong global bio-pharma demand. While overall growth declined 1% there are positive signs in other LSAG end markets, demand remained strong in environment forensics and biopharma markets with solid results in chemical and energy. You'll recall we strengthened our leadership in gas chromatography with the recent launch of the new 8860, 8890GCs. Since the launch, we were very pleased with the stronger than expected customer demand we've seen. We also have some other very exciting new products. In April, we introduced the new Agilent 6546 LC/MS Q-TOF system. This system is tailored to environmental, metabolomics research in food testing laboratories, providing ability to acquire high-resolution data across an unprecedented dynamic range. Customers can simply see more compounds and analyze them more correctly with this new offering. In addition during the quarter, we also introduced a unified purpose-built portfolio of SONOS products, targeting cancer immunotherapy with the addition of ACEA Biosciences. This offering enables research in this fast-growing segment. Our SONOS business continues to deliver double digit growth. While we're facing soft market demand in our LSAG business, we remain confident in the strength of our portfolio and believe we are well positioned to continue wining in the market. Now, I would like to share more detail about the other two businesses. The Agilent CrossLab Group continues to deliver excellent results, growing 9% on a core basis. Demand is broad-based across all regions. This reflects the market-leading value of our portfolio and differentiated customer experience. In China, the ACG business grew in the mid-teens. The team continues to execute our strategy of leveraging Agilent's large instrument installed base. We also continue to expand our services footprint in emerging cities, and tailor our consumer's portfolio to local markets. The Diagnostics and Genomics Group delivered a solid quarter with 6% core revenue growth. Regional demand is led by strength in the Americas. Our pathology related businesses grew high single-digits. Previously announced large competitive wins along with continued strong demand for our antibodies and our companion diagnostic services are driving our growth in that segment. Agilent also received expanded FDA approval for our PDL1 IHC companion diagnostic for metastic non-small cell lung cancer. This companion diagnostic would now be used to identify a broader range of patients who may qualify for first-line treatment with Keytruda. The NASD business continued delivering strong performance with mid-teens growth. We are on track to bring our second facility online. We anticipate the initial production of GMP grade APIs by the end of fiscal 2019. Material revenue contributions are expected in fiscal year 2020. Looking ahead to the second half of the year, we're confident that the momentum will continue in ACG and DGG businesses. For our LSAG business, our outlook for the second half is tempered by our view of continued soft market conditions. As a result, we have revised our outlook for the full year, reaffirming our prior EPS commitment while lowering revenue growth. Bob will describe this in more detail but first, just a few summary comments. We now expect to deliver core growth for the year between 4% and 5%. While we're facing market headwinds in our LSAG business, our full year earnings guidance remains intact. The Agilent team remains firmly committed to meeting our current guidance for earnings growth. Our guidance reflects confidence in the strength of the overall Agilent business model and our ability to drive solid earnings results. Thank you for being on the call today and look forward to answering your questions.

Mahon: Thank you, Mike and good afternoon everyone. In my remarks today, I will provide some additional detail on revenue, walk through the second quarter income statement and some other key financial metrics. And then I'll finish up with our updated guidance for Q3 and the full year. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. And percentage changes will be on a year-over-year basis. As Mike mentioned, we delivered solid Q2 earnings despite slower than anticipated top-line growth, underscoring the strength of Agilent's financial model and our ability to respond quickly to changing market conditions. Revenue for the quarter was $1.24 billion with core quarter revenue growth of 4%. Reported growth was 3% as currency negatively impacted growth by 320 basis points, slightly higher than expected. This was partially offset by M&A contributing 190 basis points of growth. As Mike spoke to the business group's performance for the quarter, I will provide some additional details around our end markets and regional performance. Pharma, our largest end market, delivered 2% core growth. We continue to see strength in biopharma and aftermarket services and consumables, and in our NASD business. However, the slowing of the instrument replacement cycle for small molecule applications led to a softer than expected result. Chemical and energy core growth was a strong 6%, above expectations and driven by strong low-teens growth in services and consumables. All regions grew led by strength in the Americas. Environmental and forensics was up 7%. Strength in forensics is linked to the ongoing global opioid crisis, which is driving demand for expanded forensic laboratory capabilities, more samples and broader screening requirements. The environmental market grew mid single-digits, and continues to be driven by an ongoing expansion of testing and oversight in China. Now wrapping up our end market discussion, core revenue for both diagnostics and clinical and academia and government, both grew 5%, while food declined 3% due to the softness in the China market. Geographically, we saw growth in all regions, led by the Americas with 6% growth as conditions in the U.S. continue to be healthy. Europe, with 4% growth, performed better than anticipated, driven by pharma outsourcing trends and continued strong biopharma investments. China grew 3%. And while we had strong mid-teens growth in the ACG business, softer instrument sales in the food market and small molecule pharma led to lower than expected overall results. Now before I leave revenue, the core growth of our combined LSAG and ACG businesses, while below our expectations, was 4% in the quarter. And we believe compares favorably to the overall analytical lab market growth. Now turning to the rest of the P&L. Q2 gross margin was 56% and increased 70 basis points compared to the prior year. We continue to achieve good gross margin improvements through our productivity initiatives, and driving continued economies of scale in our ACG services business. Operating margin was 21.9%, up 60 basis points, mainly due to discipline cost management as shifting market conditions became increasingly apparent in the latter part of the quarter. Additionally, the tax rate was down marginally and average diluted shares were $321 million. This led to non-GAAP earnings per share of $0.71 in the second quarter, an increase of 9% compared to the prior year and at the midpoint of our guidance. Now, before moving to Q3 guidance and full year guidance, I want to touch on a few additional financial metrics on cash flow and on the balance sheet. Our free cash flow for the quarter was $213 million. We deployed $102 million in the quarter, consisting of $52 million in dividends and $50 million in share purchases, representing roughly 635,000 shares. Lastly, we ended the quarter with $2.2 billion in cash and $1.8 billion in debt. And during the quarter, we also renewed our revolving credit line of $1 billion, which remains undrawn. With our strong balance sheet position, we will be more active in the second half of the year deploying capital. Specifically, we intend to deploy $500 million for share repurchases with the majority of that to come in the third quarter. This underscores not only our balance sheet strength, but also our confidence in the future. In addition, we still have plenty of capacity for M&A and we have an active business development funnel. Although, we will continue to remain disciplined in our approach. Now, let's turn to our non-GAAP financial guidance for the fiscal year. As Mike indicated, we're reducing our core revenue growth outlook for the year. While our expectations for ACG and DDG aren't changing, our forecasts for the second half is tempered by softening market condition in certain segments on the instrument side of the business. The developments in China, coupled with continued uncertainty on trade is creating a more challenging macro environment. As a result, we are updating our full year revenue guidance to a range of $5.085 billion to $5.125 billion representing 3.5% to 4.3% reported growth. Currency is expected to be a headwind of 210 basis points, partially offset by M&A. And as a result, we're now expecting core revenue growth in the range of roughly 4% to 5%. Now despite reducing revenue guidance, we feel confident in holding to our full year earnings per share guidance range of $3.03 to $3.07, representing growth excluding currency of roughly 10% to 11% and reported growth of 8.6 to 10%. As Mike mentioned, our EPS guidance reflects confidence in the strength of Agilent's business and our ability to drive earnings through multiple levers. These include disciplined expense management and the use of our balance sheet. Based on deploying the additional $500 million toward share repurchase, we are updating our average diluted share count down to $319 million for the year. Now finally, turning to the third quarter, we're expecting revenue in the range of $1.225 billion to $1.245 billion, representing reported growth of 1.8% to 3.5% and core growth of 2.7% to 4.1%. Currency is estimated to be a headwind of 210 basis points, partially offset by M&A contributing roughly 120 basis points to 250 basis points growth. Third quarter 2019 non-GAAP earnings are expected to be in the range of $0.71 to $0.73 a share, which is 6% to 9% reported growth versus a year ago. The share count for Q3 is expected to be $317 million. Let me conclude by saying we are pleased with the team's ability to preserve earnings performance despite shifting market conditions. We are confident in the strength of Agilent's business and our ability to navigate softness in certain markets. With that, before opening up for questions,

Leonard: So first question, trying to make sure I understand the issues in small molecule pharma. Is that an LC comment specifically, or more broadly customers you're labeling as small molecule pharma? And can you comment on the trends between ethical pharma and in generics?

Mullen: So I will make a few comments and then, Jacob, feel free to jump on this. I think it's primarily LC related, and it’s a situation we're seeing actually globally. I called out specifically the government initiative in China. We also saw in our large pharma accounts in U.S. and Europe this delays in purchasing. In fact, I remember talking with our European field manager. We had an order that was supposed to close in January with big European pharma company it was pushed out, we thought it was going to close at the end of March and now this closed in

Thaysen: No, you're absolutely, Mike, that that is primarily the LC business. However, many of those pharma companies also have investment into some other areas and when they now see some chances in the generics, they might put back also in other areas. So

Mahon: I would just add, Dan. While the LSAG business did show a decline year-over-year, I would remind you to look at the total company, which actually did improve margins for year-over-year and for the 17%. So we operate this as a full company its part of the One Agilent approach. And so we're taking a number of initiatives. But as Mike said, we're also doubling down on areas, such as the new products in the areas where we think we can drive. We did see pockets of strength in LSAG and Jacob and team are really focusing on those areas; areas such as cell analysis and chemical and energy, and some of the other areas as well. So it's not just an expense, it is really ensuring that we're focused on the areas that we have the fastest opportunities for growth.

Peterson: So I'm going to follow up on some of the pharma questions. When we did the CEO call back in early April, you did call out the China generic headwinds. We didn't really hear about the pharma delays at that point. So obviously, it seems like it came up later in the quarter. And you mentioned it was several accounts. So can you maybe just talk on how widespread it is? And is this a transitory issue in your mind, or how you're thinking about pharma for the remainder of the year?

Mullen: Thanks for the excellent question, Tycho. And I do recall our conversations. I think it was in early April. And I had just come back from China and we were first hearing about the four by seven initiatives in China. And to your question, I think that we saw it fairly broad based, this is outside of China. So I think China's got some specific things happening relative to the government actions around for 4 plus 7, which I think are fairly publicized, but we saw that both our U.S. and European customers. And we just had a major account review and all of our major accounts were down year-over-year. And there's just a level of caution relative to replacing investments in the small molecule side of businesses, The same companies, however, are investing quite heavily in the biopharma side. So it's a sort of a tale of two cities from the standpoint of what's really going well inside some of our larger accounts versus where there's been a pause. And Bob, I know you've looked at this quite closely as well. I don’t know if you have anything else to add to that?

Donnelly: Just some clarity around some of the slowing you saw beginning in April. In the last call you talked about January being slow. So maybe just talk us through the cadence of the quarter, particularly in China? Were February and March trending okay and then you've got the signs of four plus seven, and April really slowed, because again one of your peers who didn’t have April in their quarter had some real softness there, which obviously was in March. So maybe just talk us through month-by-month how things trended there?

Mullen: We really want to make sure it's clear to the investment community what we saw during the quarter. So what I'd say is if we've been having this discussion at the end of February we're feeling really good about the quarter. In fact, we got off to a very good start. And as we looked at our forecast for the remainder of the quarter, it looked pretty solid. But as we increasingly went through the month of March, we were expecting in the last seven to 10 days our normal push of orders to close this. And I'd say normal pushes across all the regions, because often we have lot of customers who have quarter end date. So typically, March is a pretty strong month for us. And when we closed the last week or so, the orders in March, it just wasn’t there. We just didn’t get normal month end surge. And then perhaps maybe some order didn’t get booked at the end of March, we didn’t see anything unusual in the beginning of the April. So I think it was that timeframe that we knew we're in the midst of something that we hadn't expected. I would say, again, I think it caught our teams by surprise. I had been in China at the latter part of March, and we just reviewed the forecast. And then we could see that they were caught unexpectedly by customer delays in China.

Mullen: Patrick, if I could just add one more thing. What I would tell you is and just to reinforce the confidence we have in regards to the second half outlook. April did come in relative to our expectations on orders, our recast orders on the LSAG front, obviously, too late for revenue. But that gives us confidence that we have a handle on where the market is right now.

Mullen: No, in fact I think as I said earlier, we were sitting here at the end of February thinking that this quarter wasn’t developed just as it was. And what we didn’t anticipate was just how quickly the pharma business slowed down in China and then as well as the lack of recovery on the food side. And then there seem to be this whole small molecule side in U.S. and Europe. So really, it was a tail of the latter part of the quarter. We saw nothing unusual about our -- we can't point anything usual relative to our

Bruin: And the U.S. and European pharma slowdown. Was this just capital not being -- I mean, I know there is always a little bit of slowness when we release the capital fund at the beginning of the year. Is it that? Or just people -- I mean, you mentioned some order delays. And I guess is because that the company is just nervous on their small molecule businesses? I mean, are they -- once again you've certainly been asked the question that they've asked to extending the life on their current instruments, or going along those lines just trying to figure out what's driving that?

Mahon: I think it's a little of both, Derek. I do think that there -- we haven't seen -- we obviously have a backlog, but we haven't seen orders being canceled, or people saying they are not purchasing. It's actually being delayed. And so the question for us was, is it transitory and we'll catch up, we are taking the approach that is probably not going to catch up and it's just going to continue to push. But I also do think that there is probably some element of trying to get more mileage, so to speak, out of your existing instrumentation, particularly as they are looking at capacity.

Thaysen: Bob, I think it's very clear out there that we see that there's certainly a conservative procurement tactics happening right now, and people are stalling a little bit. But at the same time, we have to see that our fund is quite rich. So we still see a lot of business, but it goes much slower these days. So we actually do believe that it's a great opportunity out there, but we can't call it right now.

Couillard: Mike, I'd like to step back a little bit, I've realized it's early. But could you speak to -- as we look at fiscal '20? Could you speak to the relevancy of the 4.5% to 6% mid-term range that you talked about at the June Analyst Day last year relative to the 4% to 4.5% you're going to put up this year? And what specifically needs to get better to achieve that?

Thaysen: Yes, you're absolutely right that we still have very nice opportunity last year in USP, but now it's moved on both to water analysis but also the STM business. And generally speaking, we see that the ICP-MS growth, particularly in U.S. is very strong this year. So we actually see that data, plenty of opportunity with ICP-MS. Obviously, when new regulations come in place, then there is a certain opportunity but it looks like we jumped in for opportunity in that space.

Souda: And my second question is around -- I appreciate that you're getting challenging quarter in LSAG here. But just help us understand the -- I mean, you talked about the magnitude of benefit that you received in 8890 and 8860. I don't know if you quantified that in the quarter. And I'm asking that because in last call you’ve mentioned you started shipping that instrument, I think, in the second week of February. And just wanted to get a sense of how that instrument is contributing and what's your expectation for the rest of the year?

Mullen: Puneet, thanks so much for asking about this, because this is a real bright spot in the overall LSAG performance in Q2, and it speaks to our view of the future. We didn't quantified and probably won't quantify the exact contribution but we did start shipping. But I'd say right now we have more orders in backlog than we shipped. And I think we're 150%, 200% of our forecast.

Thaysen: It has been very significant. Obviously, it is also some customers decided to move from the 78 into the 88 faster than we anticipated. But at the same time, we're also seeing that that with the 8860 going for the mid range that that combination with the mass spec has actually been quite successful also. So overall, we see good momentum but we haven't quantified the incremental.

Brennan: I wanted to ask a question maybe back to, Jacob. I was hoping you can provide a little bit more color about what you're hearing from customers on the pharma side in U.S. and Europe to account for the more restrictive budgets and if it's related to anything with global macro, maybe for Mike. Have you seen any such impact to other businesses as well?

Mullen: Actually, what don’t I start off, Dan. And thanks for the question. And then I'll pass it down to -- over to Jacob for specifics on pharma. We haven't seen that in the other segments of the marketplace. And there's a lot of noise out there, so uncertainty is never good. But we really can't point to anything specific. And I think if you look at our results, I mean, you saw two, three businesses continue to perform as expected and do quite well. And then we had some isolated but obviously impactful slowdowns in aspects of the LSAG business, albeit the chemical energy, academic government, environmental forensics, and biopharma, were continued sources of strength. So I think it's really been isolated to the factors you mentioned. And I know, Jacob, you've been trying to do a little bit more diligence around this. And we have some theories but I'm not sure we have 100% specific answer of what's driving the customers and delay the purchases on the small molecule side.

Thaysen: No, clearly, we are seeing that conservative procurement tactics that they are they using. And obviously, we've been out doing our own digging to understand what is really going on there. And first of all, we don't see any change in competitive dynamics. This is not -- this is truly a market situation we're in right now. So this is where it's -- people are the procurement organizations and customers and they only are just more cautious in their decision on capital equipment expenditure right now.

Mullen: So I think just more speculation on our part, but we -- some of the things where, hey, there's still some question about where prices are in land in certain parts of the world in terms of unused prices, some questions about growth. And then again, as we mentioned earlier in the call, prioritization that when push comes to shove, privatization of biopharma over small molecule. Again, we just think it's a push out delay business has not been canceled.

Brennan: And then the related to a question, I know that was asked earlier, just want your clarification. So I think you gave us what pharma has baked in for Q3. Can you just let us know what assume pharma and food for Q3 and Q4 and just remind us, how big is your China food business?

Mullen: In fact, the pipeline looks very robust. And as I signaled I believe in the last call, we're very active right now and don’t have anything announce, but we want to deploy the capital. We want to leverage the strength on the balance sheet. Bob is very explicit to how we're going to use one aspect of that relative to the buy back side, but we have plenty of firepower to execute on targets. And as you can see based on my earlier comments and some of the numbers we’re putting up with the companies we have acquired, we're increasingly confident in our ability to deliver on

Mullen: Thanks, Ankur, and thanks, everyone, for joining our call today. Our Q3 results exceeded our expectations. The Agilent team delivered total revenues of $1.27 billion, up 6% on a core basis. Our EPS of $0.76 is up 13%. Both our top line revenue and EPS are above the high end of our guidance range. This marks our 18th consecutive quarter of adjusted operating margin expansion. In July, we also announced the pending acquisition of BioTek, which would be our largest acquisition since the 2015 launch of the new Agilent. We continue to invest for growth even amid market uncertainty. At the same time, our Agile Agilent business system continues to drive operational improvements. Our excellent overall company growth is being driven by two factors. First, strength in the global pharma market in both small molecule and biopharma. Secondly, geographic strength in the U.S. across most end market segments. China growth was generally in line with expectations. Business unit performance is led by double-digit growth in our Agilent CrossLab and Diagnostic and Genomics Group. Let's take a closer look at the performance of all 3 of our business groups. I will start with ACG, our Agilent CrossLab Group. The ACG business continues its trajectory of consistently strong results with 11% core growth. This growth was broad based across all market segments and regions. Our service business grew at a double-digit rate as we continue to see higher demand for our expanding portfolio, both from current and new customers. We see a continued secular trend of customers seeking to drive increased productivity and to outsource non-core services in the lab. Our services offering puts us in a leadership position to benefit from that trend. Our consumables business also grew double-digit. We continue to introduce highly differentiated consumables and address important customer challenges and a significantly improved user experience, especially in high-growth markets like biopharma. I'm very pleased with the continuing positive impact on total company results from the Agilent's CrossLab strategy. Our consistent results speak to the strong execution from the Agilent team and the value we bring to our customers. We're meeting the ever-increasing demand from our customers, and we see the attach rates to our installed base of instruments consistently improving. Now turning to DGG, our Diagnostics and Genomics Group business. DGG's growth momentum continues with strong 13% core growth. The growth is broad based across pathology, genomics, and our NASD businesses. Let me share a few additional comments on our NASD business. NASD turned in a very strong third quarter as we continued to see increasing demand from our customers' clinical trials. As a reminder, in June, we opened our second production facility located in Frederick, Colorado. We remain on track to start commercial shipments this quarter. We also announced that we purchased our previously leased site in Boulder, Colorado. These 2 facilities enable Agilent to meet the growing demand for development of RNA-based therapeutics and continue to be a partner of choice to both pharmaceutical and biotech companies. Now moving on to our LSAG, our Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group business. LSAG's revenue is flat year-over-year on a core basis and in line with our expectations. Strength in the pharma, environmental, and forensics markets was offset by chemical energy declining against a very tough 12% compare and expected weakness in the China food market. As you know, in Q2, we discussed 3 areas that impacted LSAG's growth rates. Let me give you an update. First, starting with the 4+7 initiative in China. We saw a sequential improvement in demand from generics manufacturers. This is driven by business coming from the winners of the first 4+7 pilot, resulting in growth in our instruments business. We have deep relationships and history with these customers. While the program is expected to expand over the rest of the calendar year, we see incremental regulatory clarity ultimately drive increased production volumes in a favorable long-term investment environment. Second, the China food market conditions remain the same as last quarter and in line with our expectations, with revenues flat to Q2. The business from government-owned labs remains muted, while commercial testing labs activity is increasing. We are expecting similar overall market conditions this coming quarter as well. Finally, the global small molecule pharma business outside of China saw improvement in demand relative to Q2. We saw budgets free up and LC replacements taking place in some of our large accounts as well as the addition of new customers. While macroeconomic and political conditions are creating market uncertainty for capital investments, I am quite confident in our ability to take market share in whatever market environment we encounter. We have an industry-leading portfolio and are not sitting still. We continue to invest in new offerings and markets. One of these new market investments is the pending acquisition of BioTek. As I mentioned earlier, this quarter, we announced our intent to acquire BioTek, a global leader in the design, manufacture, and distribution of innovative cell analysis instrumentation. I'm very excited by the significant step forward in strengthening our leadership position in the fast-growing cell analysis space. Our strategic focuses there began with the purchase of Seahorse Bioscience in 2015 and was followed by the acquisitions of Luxcel Biosciences and ACEA Biosciences in 2018. By combining BioTek's offering with Agilent, we will create a business with revenues greater than $250 million per year, up from zero four years ago, this business is growing double digits today. Looking ahead, we will now be able to deliver a breadth of differentiated workflows, enabling customers to obtain deeper, more reliable insights across a variety of cell analysis applications. This is yet another example of how we're investing in new, high-growth markets where we can leverage core Agilent capabilities in our One Agilent culture. The culture and portfolio fit with BioTek are extremely well aligned. We share the same core values and have very similar cultures with a genuine focus on our customers and teams. I look forward to welcoming the BioTek team into the Agilent family. We expect the acquisition to close later this fiscal quarter. We also continue to bring new and innovative offerings to the market across all of our businesses. These new offerings are consistently drawing very strong interest from both new and existing customers. For example, earlier this year, we launched major updates to our gas chromatography, spectroscopy, and genomics portfolio. In addition, in Q3, we had an excellent showing at the ASMS Conference highlighted by the launch of a new Agilent Infinity Lab LC/MSD iQ system. This new system incorporates designed-in smart features, software, and hardware, developed specifically for chemists and chromatographers. Our new LC/MSD iQ system is a single-quad mass spec, built on the revolutionary Ultivo LC Triple Quad core technology platform. We also launched a brand-new Agilent 6546 LC/Q-TOF system that provides analyst ability to simultaneously acquire high-resolute data across unprecedented dynamic range. In addition, during the quarter, we introduced a new Agilent 6495 C Triple Quad LC/MS system that provides industry-leading precision in complex major Cs. And finally, we introduced a new Agilent Bravo sample prep system for metabolic analysis of human plasma samples. This new offering further strengthens our leading position in metabolomics. We also brought to market the first outcome of our joint development work with a newly combined Agilent and ACEA teams. At the CYTO 2019 conference, we introduced the NovoCyte Advanteon flow cytometer. This new offering addresses today's high end and increasingly sophisticated multi-color flow cytometry assays. It provides unsurpassed sensitivity, resolution, detection speed, and the flexibility of resin channel. In addition, the number of indications from our PD-L1 diagnostic assay continue to expand. In Q3, we received FDA approval for 2 new indications. Our PD-L1 diagnostic may now be used as an aid in identifying patients for treatment with KEYTRUDA in a total of 6 cancer types. While making all these investments and launching new products, we continued our trajectory of margin expansion by 90 basis points versus last year. Our Agile Agilent system of continuous process improvement and disciplined cost management keeps the team focused on finding and executing on new opportunities. A few closing comments on our Q3 results and company transformation that has been underway for several years. Looking ahead, we continue to see uncertainty in a challenging market environment in some end markets for capital instrument purchases. This quarter's results again demonstrate Agilent's ongoing transformation towards higher growth markets in an increasingly resilient business model with a higher mix of recurring revenue streams. Given our Q3 results and outlook, we're raising our full year guidance for earnings as well as revenue growth at the midpoint of guidance, and Bob will describe this in more detail. Before I turn it over to Bob, I'd like to leave you with a few -- a couple of thoughts here. At the close of our Q2 call, I commented that great companies do not just react to market conditions, they see market opportunity. At Agilent, we will continue to invest for growth and take market share in whatever market conditions we encounter. We're continuing to drive productivity and we're doubling down our efforts to be a more agile company. We will continue to leverage our strong balance sheet to invest in the business and return capital to our shareholders. I'm quite confident that our company has never been stronger and that we're well positioned to drive continued growth and earnings expansion in an increasingly uncertain global economy. Thanks for being on the call, and I look forward to answering your questions. I'll now hand off the call to Bob. Bob?

Mahon: Thanks, Mike. And good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I'll provide some additional detail in revenue, walk through the third quarter income statement and some other key financial metrics, and to discuss our capital deployment during the quarter. I'll then finish up with our updated guidance for Q4 and full year. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. As Mike said, our third quarter results were very good as we had strong execution across a number of fronts. Revenue for the quarter was $1.27 billion, with core revenue growth of 6.2%. Reported growth was 5.8%, with currency negatively impacting revenue by 1.9 points and acquisitions adding 1.5 points to growth. In terms of end markets, pharma, diagnostics and clinical, and environmental and forensics, led the way for us in the third quarter. Pharma, our largest market, grew 13%. Strength was broad-based across instruments, services and consumables as well as NASD, our biopharma business continues to grow at double-digit rates, and we saw good growth in the small molecule business as well, both in instruments and recurring revenues. Our Environmental and forensics business grew 15% on a core basis in the third quarter, albeit on an easier compare. As with the second quarter, our forensic strength is tied to demand for expanded lab capabilities. This is a result of the ongoing global opioid crisis, which is driving increased sample testing and broader screening requirements. Our environmental business grew high single digits. Again, driven by the ongoing expansion of testing in China. Diagnostics and clinical, core revenue grew 7% during the quarter, driven by strength of our pathology and genomics businesses. Chemical and energy revenue grew 1% against a very tough compare of 12% growth from Q3 of last year. Results were driven by continued strength in services and consumables. Academia and government declined 5%, largely due to order timing and rounding out the discussion of end markets, food revenue declined 3%, driven by China coming in as we expected, and as Mike discussed. On a geographic basis, we again saw growth in all regions, led by the U.S., growing at double-digit rates, with strength across all 3 businesses. China grew 1%, generally in line with our expectations, primarily due to the weakness in food. If you exclude food, growth in China was 6%; Asia, outside of China, also grew at a double-digit rate, driven by growth in Japan and South Korea. Europe grew 3%, in line with our expectations as the market environment remains subdued. Now turning to the rest of the P&L. Third quarter gross margin was 56.4%, essentially flat year-over-year, with tariffs impacting gross margin adversely by 30 basis points. We've been able to mitigate the impact to tariffs through discipline and cost management, and the ongoing focus on efficiency. Our operating margin was 22.8%, up 90 basis points as revenue growth outpaced growth in operating expenses. Year-to-date, our margins continue to expand as our teams have executed strong expense discipline. And as a result, non-GAAP EPS for the quarter came in at $0.76, $0.03 higher than the top end of our guidance and representing 13% growth. In addition to our operating performance, we were very active in deploying capital during the quarter. In Q3, we returned $600 million to shareholders. We bought back shares worth $549 million, totaling 8 million shares, and paid $51 million in dividends. As Mike mentioned, we also signed a definitive agreement to acquire BioTek Instruments and expect the deal to close by the end of our current fiscal fourth quarter. So year-to-date, including BioTek, we've committed to deploying over $2.2 billion in capital this year. Of that, $1.4 billion was spent in growth acquisitions with ACEA and BioTek, expanding our cell analysis franchise. We have also returned over $800 million through dividends and share buybacks. Our balance sheet today remains healthy and we continue to look for opportunities to add growth assets to our portfolio. Now turning to the cash flow. We generated $242 million in operating cash flow and ended the quarter in an effectively cash neutral position. Now let's turn to our non-GAAP financial guidance for the year -- fiscal year. As Mike mentioned, with the strong results in Q3 and our outlook for the fourth quarter, we are raising our full year revenue and EPS guidance. Please note that our guidance does not include any impact from the expected BioTek acquisition. For the full year revenue guidance, we're increasing the lower end of our range. Thereby, increasing the midpoint, resulting in a new range of $5.105 billion to $5.125 billion, representing 3.9% to 4.3% reported growth. Currency is expected to be a headwind of roughly 200 basis points, partially offset by M&A contributing 150 basis points. As a result, we're now expecting core revenue growth in the range of 4.4% to 4.8% for the full year. With the strong execution we've seen in terms of our business strategies, we're raising our full year earnings per share guidance to a range of $3.07 to $3.09. This represents growth of 10% to 10.8% for the year. And now turning to the fourth quarter. We're expecting revenue in the range of $1.31 billion to $1.33 billion, representing reported growth of 1.2% to 2.8% and core growth of 1.5% to 3%. Currency is estimated to be a headwind of roughly 100 basis points partially offset by M&A contributing roughly 70 to 80 basis points of growth. Fourth quarter non-GAAP earnings are expected to be in the range of $0.84 to $0.86 per share, which is 3.7% to 6.2% reported growth versus a year ago. Also of note, the newly announced tariffs on the additional $300 billion of U.S. imports from China is not expected to be material for us. And the share count for Q4 is expected to be 313 million shares. Now before opening up the call for questions, I'd like to conclude by saying that Agilent's resilient business model is built for the long term. We believe we are focused on the right strategies that will continue to serve us well and ensure solid shareholder value long into the future.

Mullen: I guess if there's one silver lining in terms of -- which is the, again, back to this productivity message and the fact that we now have a fleet of really great new products and there's a real productivity benefit to the customer, they're in a stronger position to go to their management and get support for their investment because it does really help their

Peterson: Mike, can you talk a little bit about the global pharma picture? You said it delays last quarter. Now you're saying kind of budget's freed up. So how much of the 13% growth you saw was just kind of catch up from last quarter? And how you're feeling about sustainability of that going forward?

Mullen: So I'll let Bob do a little math on the catch-up. But let me make some macro comments while you're doing your mental math. But as we pointed out in Q2, we said, hey, in Q2, biopharma really is quite strong. By the way, it was strong and even stronger this quarter. But we said, hey, we saw a pause in the small molecule side outside of China and we talked a lot already about the 4+7 but it really was kind of curious or something, what was going on with our large accounts in U.S. and Europe. And I think they were just being prudent in their budgeting process, and we saw a release of funds in the -- in our third quarter. And we're expecting that to continue. So we don't see that as being a one-quarter phenomena, albeit that that's why we try to use the words in some end markets we're expecting some pretty challenging market conditions. So pharma, actually, we think is continuing to be a source of growth on the LSAG instrument side, while we expect some markets to actually be down year-over-year. And Bob, I don't know how we can parse out the catch-up?

Mahon: Yes. I think, Tycho, the way I would talk about it is, as I mentioned, the pharma business grew 13% in the quarter. And if you look at small molecule, it was mid-single digits. So there was probably some catch-up, but I wouldn't say it was material that, that mid single-digits is kind of where it has been historically over the last several quarters. So I think it -- what we have said and kind of the hypothesis has been that's primarily a replacement cycle. They can hold off for a number of quarters but they can't do that forever if they want to keep their manufacturing processes in place. And so we think we are in that. It wasn't a snapback. So there wasn't more in Q3 than what we saw. But I think it was now they're getting further in the fiscal year and they're actually spending that money.

Thaysen: Yes. I think that's correct. But we do see that the larger accounts are still very conservative in the procurement, while some smaller pharma actually is investing these days. So that's where we actually see some of the growth coming from also.

Mullen: Yes. Thanks for the build there because in my narrative, I talked about the business coming not only from existing customers, but new customers.

Mullen: Yes. Much like avoiding the temptation of talking about FY '20 guide, I'll also avoid the temptation to talk about specific details on a product line level. But what I can do is give you a directional number. So I think we've been talking about this business hitting probably $100 million or so this year. And then, as we look into FY '20, we've added at least that much in terms of capacity. So we hope to be up to a larger number in the -- by the end of next year at the sort of a run rate level, at a higher number. We're not ready to kind of commit to what the number actually is, but it's going to be a pretty -- a nice step up for us. And Bob, I know you've been doing some modeling in this area as well already.

Mahon: Yes. I think Puneet, I mean, nothing has changed. We had a very good quarter. We're expecting another very good quarter next year -- or next quarter, excuse me, largely in the back of our existing capacity. And the team has just done a fantastic job. As Mike said, we're on pace to delivering that $100 million consistent with what we said, really, since the beginning of the year. And we're excited about the new facility coming online. And as Mike mentioned, it's bringing on manufacturing capacity right now and look forward to '20 and beyond serving our customers

Mullen: And by the way, don't interpret my comments as being any less bullish in this space. We just know that as we bring on the new facility, you have to time when you actually can start the batches up, but a lot of that is being driven by customers timing when they're doing the clinical trials. So we're much more specific when we do our FY '20 guide because we'll have a much better handle on the timing when these new customers will be coming into our new facility. I can tell you we've sold a good percentage of that capacity already.

Raha: One thing that we've already stated is the basis of this as the number of clinical trials and work being done here. We see the supplier opportunity for us going from $0.5 billion market to over $750 million over the next several years. So we're going to grow with that. And it is a fact, too, that we are doubling our overall capacity for manufacturing. But I just want to reemphasize what both Mike and Bob said that there is a ramp up process over a number of years. So just because we're doubling our capacity, doesn't mean we're going to be double our revenue there.

Schulte: First, I was just wondering, can you go into a bit more detail on your strong results in environmental and forensics? I think this is the fourth quarter in a row of high single-digit or double-digit growth there. So I'd just be curious to hear more details on the drivers in that end market.

Mullen: Yes. So if you don't mind, I'll make some summary comments, then Jacob, you can just fill in some of the details. But last number, that's our view on our new GC family launch was actually ahead of where we thought we'd be. And I think we're doing well on the iQ as well.

Thaysen: Yes. Certainly, I think we are -- despite some challenging market conditions, we're actually doing extremely well with the 88 series and in front of our -- on our own ramped volume. So I think that is working very well, and it's really the combination of what we call the smart instrument combined with our already proven -- well proven technology, GC technology. And that really resonates with our customers. The same can actually be said with our iQ, which of course, a little -- only was introduced a few weeks ago out at the ASMS and we start to ship here very soon. We have received the first orders. But what I can say there is that it has been very well received where we have been out introducing it and presenting it to customers. I think they very much like the ease-of-use intuitiveness of the detector itself. And also, all the self awareness that it have. So it really helps the customer to be successful, not only successful, but also allow them to be -- you have much more uptime in a laboratory. And this really addresses the QA QC labs, where it's all about being uptime and of course, get things with the laboratory. So it's been really well-received, but it's still early days for the iQ. So we have received orders, but we are shipping in this quarter here.

Mahon: Steve, just on NASD, it's going to be, as we've said earlier in the year, it's not going to be material to the overall numbers.

Mahon: No. Maybe I'd just leave it here. I mean, I think we feel very good about our portfolio. Obviously, we can't time the markets from the standpoint of market growth. But we think that we're able to gain share in any market, and I think this quarter proves that. Our portfolio is strong. We continued to invest in areas that are faster growing than the overall company, things like cell analysis and then also our biopharma businesses across all three business groups. So I think Mike mentioned it in the prepared remarks that the business is a lot different than it was five years ago. And I think we continue to invest in fast-growing areas, continuing to transform it and make it a much more resilient model. And I think we feel good about that certainly for not only

Mullen: Thanks, Ankur, and thanks, everyone, for joining us on our call today. When I became CEO, I knew we had the opportunity to become a growth company. We would do this by investing in fast-growing markets with a building and buying approach. We also set out to create a more resilient company business model, capable of delivering strong earnings in a variety of market conditions. To accomplish this, we developed a roader base of growth and a more flexible and efficient cost structure. As you know, transforming a decades-old company is not an easy task, but I believed in the strength and determination of the Agilent team. The fourth quarter and full-year results I will share today are a testament to the commitment of the Agilent team and their ability to step up to meet this challenge. We strongly closed our fiscal 2019, with fourth quarter results exceeding our expectations. Agilent’s Q4 revenue of $1.37 billion is up 4% on a core basis against a 9% compare. And we have momentum going into 2020 as orders outpaced revenue. EPS of $0.89 is up 10% for the quarter. Both our top line revenue and EPS are above the high-end of our fourth quarter guidance. Operating margin of 25.1% is up 50 basis points over last year. Q4 marks the 19th consecutive quarter of adjusted operating margin expansion delivered by the Agilent team. Our higher than expected top line is led by 10% core growth from our Agilent CrossLab Group. Business is also strong for our Diagnostics and Genomics Group, delivering 7% core growth. Our Life Sciences and Applied Markets revenues are in line with expectations, down 2% against a 9% growth compare. The pharma, diagnostics and clinical, and the environmental and forensics markets continue to lead our growth. High single-digit U.S. growth is stronger than forecasted with other regions coming in as expected. Growth in China declined low single digits as expected. Agilent’s growth strategy of building and buying in fast-growing markets is on full display in Q4. During the quarter, we closed the acquisition of BioTek. This is our largest acquisition since the launch of the new Agilent in 2015. BioTek brings a superb team and an excellent high-growth, highly profitable business to Agilent. The acquisition of BioTek complements our earlier acquisition this year of ACEA BioSciences. Both acquisitions are part of our growing cell analysis business serving biopharma and academic research customers. Agilent’s cell analysis business is now generating more than $250 million in annual revenue, about 5% of company revenues, and is growing at a double-digit rate. We are also continuing to invest internally to drive new organic growth. In Q4, we recognized the first revenue from our new oligo API manufacturing site in Frederick, Colorado. The high-quality, GMP grade oligos produced at this site are key to a new class of drugs being developed by our biopharma customers. Investing in this facility is part of our overall strategy to build a larger biopharma business. We are expecting continued strong growth in this business as we ramp volume throughout the coming year. Finally, in October, I traveled to the UK to open a new state-of-the-art facility at the Harwell Science and Innovation Campus. The site will be a major R&D hub for laser spectroscopy and will also incorporate Agilent’s Raman spectroscopy business. Our recent acquisitions and these capital investments in Colorado and the UK are very visible examples of our continued and relentless focus on investing for growth. Hey, let’s now shift gears and look at our full-year fiscal 2019 results. We had a very solid year, generating $5.2 billion in revenue, representing 5% core growth. Strength in the pharma, clinical and diagnostics, and environmental and forensics markets led the way. Regionally, the U.S. set the pace, growing in the high single digits. The U.S. was followed by mid single-digit growth in Asia outside of China. Europe and China grew at low single digits for the year. Full-year earnings per share grew 11% to $3.11. The result is another year of double-digit earnings per share growth. The full-year operating margin of 23.3% is up 80 basis points over 2018, despite a full-year of tariff related duties. Our investments in ACG continue to yield dividends. ACG grew a stellar 10% for the year. We are helping customers transform their analytical lab operations by anticipating and meeting their evolving needs. DGG is also delivering very strong results, with 9% core growth for the year. We’re capturing market share in our pathology business, expanding our presence in next-gen sequencing and further building our oligo API business. During the year, DGG crossed the billion-dollar revenue threshold and now represents approximately 20% of Agilent’s business. LSAG revenues declined 1% on a core basis as we faced some market headwinds. We remain committed to investing for future LSAG growth and market share gains. Our new product development pipeline remains full. During the year, we introduced a number of innovative new products, including the launch of a new family of groundbreaking gas chromatographs and molecular spectroscopy instruments. At this year’s ASMS Conference, we introduced several new differentiated LC/MS offerings, including the 6546 LC-QTOF and 6495C LC triple-quad systems. As we head in 2020, our LSAG product portfolio and go-to-customer field team have never been stronger. Agilent continues to operate from a position of strength. We are well-positioned to capture market share. Before I turn the call over to

Agilent shareholder value creation model: deliver above market growth, while expanding operating margins, along with a balanced deployment of capital with a priority on investing for growth. The result, delivery of superior earnings per share growth. In driving value creation, we’ve built a broader base of growth and a more resilient business model. We were tested this year with economic and political uncertainties leading to subdued demand for new instrument purchases. Yet, we delivered 5% core growth, operating margins improved 80 basis points and delivered another year of double-digit EPS growth. We deployed more than $1.5 billion in M&A and growth-focused capital investments. On the M&A front, we’re very pleased with the performance to date of BioTek and ACEA BioSciences. We remain on the hunt for similar types of growth opportunities. I’m increasingly confident in the Agilent team’s ability to pursue larger-scale acquisitions and deliver on value creation synergies. We continue to review potential acquisitions as part of our building and buying growth strategy. Now more than ever, I’m convinced we’re in an exceptionally strong position for the future. This is particularly relevant as we move into 2020, a milestone for us at Agilent as we celebrate 20 years as an independent company. While uncertainties persist in some end-markets as we start fiscal year 2020, we’re operating from a position of strength. We have built and will sustain our track record of delivering results, working as a One Agilent on behalf of our customers and shareholders. I’m very proud of the results the Agilent team delivered in the fourth quarter and throughout the year. I know you’ve heard me say this before, but I truly believe the best is yet to come for Agilent, our customers and our investors. Thank you for being on the call today and I look forward to your questions. I will now hand the call off to Bob. I mean, that was a Freudian slip. I’ll now hand the call off to Bob. We don’t have a new CEO – CFO. Bob, you want to take it from here?

Mahon: Thanks, Mike, and good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I’ll provide some additional revenue detail and take you through the fourth quarter income statement and some other key financial metrics. I’ll then finish up with our guidance for 2020 and the first quarter. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. As Mike indicated, our fourth quarter results were very good with strong execution throughout the P&L. For the quarter, revenue was $1.37 billion, reflecting core revenue growth of 4%. Reported growth was stronger at 6%. Currency negatively impacted revenue by roughly 2 points, while acquisitions added 4 points to overall revenue, reflecting the impact of a partial quarter of revenue from the BioTek acquisition in addition to earlier acquisitions. From an end market perspective, pharma, our largest market, had 7% core growth in the quarter, especially impressive off of a tough 14% comparison from last year. Our large molecule biopharma business and CrossLab strength continue to drive strong results. Geographically, all regions grew with the strongest growth in Americas and China. In speaking of China, despite the debate regarding the pharma market and the 4+7 program, our pharma business in China grew double digits for the year. Continuing revenue in the environmental and forensics market grew 9% in the quarter. This is against a very tough compare of 17% growth last year. Growth was balanced between LSAG and ACG and continues to be driven by evolving regulations, especially concerning opioids. Diagnostics and clinical revenue grew 7% during Q4, led by strength in our pathology and companion diagnostics businesses. Within pathology, continued expansion of our PD-L1 business was a key highlight. Revenue from the chemical and energy end market came in as expected, with 1% growth. Decline in instruments were offset by strength in the CrossLab’s business. Academia and government declined 4% against the tough compare of 10% growth last year. We still see the funding environments in academia and government remaining stable though. And finally, consistent with expectations, food revenue declines about 5% due to the China food market. Despite the year-over-year declines, we were encouraged that for the third quarter in a row, the run rate in China continues to be stable. On a geographic basis, the Americas came in stronger than expected with 9% growth during the quarter, led by strong results in the pharma, diagnostics and environmental markets. Europe modestly exceeded our expectations, delivering a 4% growth rate with balance strength across most markets and groups. China came in as expected, declining in the low single digits against a very strong compare of 16% growth last year. Excluding food, China was up slightly. In wrapping up, Asia ex-China declined low single digits. Now turning to the rest of the P&L, fourth quarter gross margin was 56.5%. This was down 120 basis points year-over-year, primarily driven by product mix in LSAG, the start-up costs at our Frederick, Colorado site and a higher revenue mix from ACG. It’s reporting to remember that, while ACG’s gross margin is lower than the company average due to the services component, the ACG business has done a fantastic job of driving strong operating margin leverage. In fact, ACG’s operating margin led the company for the quarter and the year. So ACG is not only helping drive our recurring revenues, it’s doing so at a very accretive pace. In terms of operating margin, our fourth quarter margin was 25.1%, up 50 basis points, driven by operating expense leverage and strong expense management. The quarter also capped off full-year operating margin of 23.3%, an increase of 80 basis points over the prior year. Now wrapping up the income statement, our non-GAAP EPS for the quarter came in at $0.89, up 10% versus last year and $0.03 higher than the top-end of our guidance. And as Mike mentioned, our full-year earnings per share of $3.11 increased 11% versus last year. Now turning to some other financial metrics. For the quarter, we generated $314 million in operating cash flow. We acquired BioTek for $1.165 billion and returned $100 million to shareholders via dividends and share repurchases. Lastly in the quarter, we took advantage of market conditions and refinanced $500 million of senior notes early, producing our future interest costs. All in all, a very active quarter. Now before moving to next year’s guidance, I want to recap how we have deployed capital this year. As we mentioned at the beginning of the year, we plan to focus our capital deployment towards growth-oriented assets and driving returns to our shareholders. To that end, we’ve deployed over $2.3 billion this year : $1.4 billion in M&A for BioTek and ACEA and more than $900 million in share repurchases and dividends. And we ended the year with a very healthy balance sheet, allowing plenty of capacity for further capital deployment. Now let’s turn to our non-GAAP financial guidance for the 2020 fiscal year, beginning with the full-year guidance. For the full-year, we’re expecting revenue to range from $5.50 billion to $5.55 billion, representing core growth of 4% to 5% and reported growth of 6.5% to 7.5%. Currency is estimated to negatively impact growth by 0.3 percentage points with M&A contributing roughly 2.7 to 2.9 percentage points of growth for the full-year. From a group perspective, we expect ACG to sustain the momentum and deliver high single-digit growth, driven by broad-based strength. The DGG business is expected to grow at a high single-digit to low double-digit rate with our NASD Frederick facility ramping throughout the year, and we anticipate a modest recovery for LSAG roughly flat on a core basis. Now moving down the P&L, we expect modest operating leverage. And also embedded in our forecast is we expect the other income and expense line to be roughly $40 million to $45 million in net expense, with year-over-year change driven largely by the interest expense as we enter the year in a net debt position. We expect our tax rate to improve by 50 basis points to slightly above 16% and our full-year diluted shares outstanding to be approximately $312 million, essentially flat to Q4 of this year and reflecting only anti-dilutive share repurchases throughout the year. All this translates to non-GAAP EPS expected to be between $3.38 and $3.43 per share, resulting in 9% to 10% growth on a reported basis. Finally, we expect operating cash flow of approximately $775 million to $800 million. This includes a one-time tax outflow of roughly $230 million in the first quarter to transfer certain intangibles related to prior acquisitions. This tax will reduce our U.S. transition tax dollar-for-dollar and will provide us with operational and tax benefits in the future. We’ve also announced raising our dividend by 10%, continuing a streak of double-digit increases and providing another source of value to our shareholders. Now turning into Q1 guidance. For Q1, we’re expecting revenue to range from $1.34 billion to $1.355 billion, representing reported growth of 4.3% to 5.5% and core growth of 2.5% to 3.5%. The lower organic growth in Q1 reflects the impact of the timing of the Lunar New Year, which this year falls into our fiscal first quarter. We anticipate this adversely affecting the growth rate in the first quarter by roughly 1 point. In addition, the growth rate takes into account the Frederick site ramp that will occur over the year. First Quarter 2020 non-GAAP earnings are expected to be in the range of $0.80 to $0.81 per share, representing reported growth of 5% to 7%. EPS growth in Q1 is lower than the full-year based on the revenue growth, the Frederick start-up costs and certain share-based compensation costs that are expensed in the first quarter. Now before opening the call for questions, let me conclude by saying we are very pleased with the results our Agilent team was able to achieve this past year, while continuing to take focus on taking full advantage of the opportunities in front of us. We are positioning our business towards stronger secular growth markets and driving higher recurring revenue streams. We clearly saw the results of this in 2019 and we entered 2020 with a strong portfolio and with momentum.

Schenkel: …and thank you for taking my questions. So maybe first with just a cleanup question. Did fiscal 2019 NASD revenue come in around $100 million as expected? And can you give us more detail on what you’re assuming for NASD revenue in 2020? I know you said you expect it to ramp over the course of the year.

Mahon: I would say, Jack, this is Bob. Our guidance doesn’t comprehend any revenue there. And even back in the original guidance, there was no material revenue in 2020.

Mullen: Thanks Ankur and thanks everyone, for joining us on our call today. I would like to start today's call with a reminder that Mark Doak, ACG Group President, will be retiring on May 1. While Mark and his wife are currently enjoying a long planned location and is not able join us today, I would be remiss in not taking the opportunity to recognize the outstanding accomplishments Mark has made in his stellar 38-year. His track record of results speak for itself. Thank you, Mark. We have a very strong bench at Agilent and have already named Mark's successor, Padraig McDonnell. Padraig knows the business well. He has been on Mark's staff for several years and is currently running out chemistries and supplies division. Padraig and Mark are already working on transition activities as Padraig prepares to take the helm of the ACG business at the start of fiscal Q3. Our congratulations to both Mark and Padraig. And now on to the quarterly results. The Agilent team delivered a strong start to 2020. Q1 revenues are above our expectations as business grew in all regions and markets. Total revenues of $1.36 billion are up 5.7% year-over-year on a reported basis and 2.4% on a core basis. We continue to translate our topline growth into strong bottomline earnings. Our EPS of $0.81 is up 7% and is at the high-end of our guidance. Before going into business units and market details of our quarterly results, I want to speak about two specific areas that highlight how our building and buying strategy of investing in fast-growing markets continues to deliver growth and help us create a more resilient business. First, I want to talk about our most recent acquisition, BioTek. This was the first quarter with the BioTek team onboard and the business is off to a very strong start with revenue growth above our expectations. We continue to be very enthusiastic about the cell analysis space and BioTek continues the strong momentum that originally got us interested in bring them into Agilent. The BioTek leadership team was just in Santa Clara for a few days of planned meetings and they are very energized and excited about the future possibilities to make it a great business even stronger as part of the Agilent. Second, the resiliency of our business model is on full display this quarter as Agilent delivered strong growth and earnings in the face of a negative Q1 impact from the Coronavirus outbreak in China. As this has dominated headlines, let me add a few additional comments regarding the Coronavirus and its impact on Agilent. Most importantly, our thoughts go out to all those affected by the Coronavirus. On the Agilent front, our team fortunately has not had any direct health impact and many returned to work last week. We are remotely supporting our customers as a number of them gradually resume operations. We have also restarted our in-country production activities and they are shipping products to customers within China and internationally, albeit at a reduced rate. On the business side, given that our first quarter ended January 31, we are seeing business impact across both fiscal quarters, Q1 and Q2. In Q1, our revenues are running ahead of expectations right up to Lunar New Year Holiday. However, the extensive Lunar New Year Holiday affects our customers' ability to transact and accept shipments during the last days of the quarter. This reduced our reported revenue by approximately $10 million in total for the quarter, primarily in our LSAG instrument business. We have since recognized the bulk of this revenue now in Q2. Looking ahead, we are projecting that Coronavirus will continue to impact our China business throughout Q2. Bob will share additional details, but we are anticipating delays in new equipment purchases and a slower uptake of consumables and services. The slower uptake is due to reduced number of selling days resulting from the extension of Lunar New Year, along with customer and logistics operations that are ramping, but not yet fully operational. It's important to note, while we are forecasting the impact to our Q2 business, our full year outlook for total Agilent revenues and EPS remains unchanged. Our business outside of China remains on a solid footing and we believe a large portion of our China business that is currently being impacted by the Coronavirus is not lost but rather is delayed. As you know, the Coronavirus outbreak is unfortunately impacting the health and safety of tens of thousands of people. I am very proud of how the Agilent team has responded to do our part to help. Our Agilent China team is now actually supporting those customers during crucial research into the virus. We have donated instruments and supplies to four clinical and research institutions based in China to support these research and drug development efforts. We continue to closely monitor events in China and are prepared to act quickly to help wherever possible. Now on to additional details of our quarterly results. Agilent's growth is broad-based as our business grew across all regions and end markets. Regional performance was led by the Americas posting 5% core growth with America coming in with low single digit results and Asia holding steady. Despite the timing of the Lunar New Year and the Coronavirus impact late in the quarter, our China business grew low single digits. While all end markets grew, our results were led by strong growth in the biopharma and environmental forensics markets. Now taking a closer look at how the individual business units performed. LSAG revenues grew 5% on a reported basis driven my strong performance in our biopharma and cell analysis business. On a core basis, LSAG's revenues were down 2% against a tough compare and inclusive of the unexpected Q1 impact from the Coronavirus. With the exception of China, all regions and end markets performed in line with expectations. The ACG business continues to deliver strong results, posting 7% core growth even with reduced selling days in China. This growth was broad-based across all major market segments and regions. These results continue to demonstrate the strength of our ACG CrossLab strategy and how we are leading the transformation of the analytical lab. DGG has also posted 7% growth in the quarter against a difficult 12% growth compare. We have experienced a continuation of positive trends winning share on our core pathology business and seeing strength our NGS QA/QC franchise. We continue to be pleased with the revenue ramp at our new oligo manufacturing facility in Frederick, Colorado. In addition to driving strong finance results, I want to highlight some other notable events that took place during the quarter. We continue to bring different and new product to the market, meaning strong customer and external recognition. We just introduced the Agilent SureSelect XT HS2 DNA kit. This, along with our recently launched automated sample prep platform, Magnis, further strengthens our leadership position in the NGS sample prep market. In addition, two industry publication honored the Agilent InfinityLab LC/MSD iQ system with 2019 innovation awards. The award-winning mass spectrometer introduced last June incorporates intelligent design and innovations such as embedded sensors that monitor instrument health. And finally, earlier this month, Barron's name Agilent number one in the list of the 2019 Most Sustainable Companies in America. We are very proud of this recognition. Sustainability is a critical topic that is gaining increased interest from customers, employees and investors. More importantly, we believe focusing on sustainability is simply the right thing to do. Before I pass the call on to Bob, I would like to close with a reminder of Agilent's resilience and our shareholder value creation model, delivering above market growth, expanding operating margins and a balanced deployment of capital. We are able to thrive by focusing on platforms with multiple large end markets and long term growth opportunities. We are also driving growth in the aftermarket, increasing our focus on faster growing end markets, streamlining our infrastructure and operations and investing in the future of Agilent, both organically and inorganically. We do all this while maintaining acute focus on delivering EPS growth with superior quality of earnings and driving shareholder value creation. Despite the temporary business uncertainty created by the Coronavirus in China, I remain confident about the longer term growth prospects of the China market, our China growth strategy and most importantly our team. I am very proud and confident in the strength and resiliency of our China team and their ability to overcome any near term challenges that come our way. When I look at our global team in our business, our growth prospects and team have never been stronger. We are laser focused on driving revenue and earnings growth. I am pleased to tell you that all these facts allow us to maintain our growth and earnings outlook for the year. Thank you for being on the call and I look forward to answering your questions. I will now hand off the call to Bob. Bob?

Mahon: Thank you Mike and good afternoon everyone. In my remarks today, I will provide some additional detail on revenue, walk through the first quarter income statement and some other key financial metrics and then finish up with our updated guidance for Q2 and the full year. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. Our first quarter results were very good as we had strong execution across all regions and markets. Revenue for the quarter was $1.36 billion with reported revenue growth of 5.7%. Currency negatively impacted revenue by 0.4 percentage points and acquisitions added 3.7 percentage points to growth. Our core growth was 2.4% in the quarter. As Mike indicated, our performance was impacted by the extension of the Lunar New Year Holiday due to the Coronavirus. This reduced the number of shipping days in China and we estimate it shifted $10 million in revenue out of Q1. If not for the reduced shipping days in Q1, our performance would have been stronger with the shift affecting our core revenue growth by roughly 70 basis points. In terms of end markets, we saw growth across all of our six end market segments. Pharma, environmental and forensics and diagnostics and clinical led the way for us in the first quarter. During the quarter, pharma grew 3%, double digit growth in DGG and high single digit growth in ACG, offset a mid single digit decline for LSAG. Within pharma, our biopharma or large molecule segment grew high single digits. And on a geographic basis, our pharma business experienced high single-digit growth in the Americas and mid single digit growth in Europe. This was partially offset by mid single digit decline in China, largely associated with the timing of the Lunar New Year and to a lesser extent the execution of the 4+7 program. The 4+7 program is playing out as we expected with the third round completed in January and multiple winners per drug. We continue to believe that this is a long-term positive for the industry as drug quality improves and access to healthcare increases. Our environmental and forensics business grew 4% against a very tough compare last year of 10%. During the quarter, we saw balanced growth between instruments and aftermarket sales. And diagnostics and clinical revenue grew 3% against a strong 11% compare last year. Mid single digit growth in DGG, driven by continued share gains in our pathology business, were partially offset by declines in LSAG and ACG with both only having small businesses in this segment. Chemical and energy revenue grew 2%. Services and consumables grew mid single digits offset by flat instrument sales. Academia and government grew 1% with services and consumables growing mid single digits, partially offset by flat instrument sales. Mid single digit growth in the Americas was partially offset by flat to low single digit declines in the other regions. And finally, food returned a modest growth, up 1%. Low teens growth in services and consumables was partially offset by declines in instrumentation. While one quarter does not make a trend, we are pleased with the continual progress in this market. On a geographic basis, we saw growth in all regions, led by Americas growing mid single digits. Europe grew 2%, in line with our expectations. And as Mike mentioned, our business in China was running ahead of expectations through the first two months of fiscal 2020. As mentioned earlier, despite the shift of the $10 million, China still grew 1%. If not for the extension of the Lunar New Year, our core growth in China would have been solidly mid single digits. Now let's turn to the rest of the P&L. Gross margin was 55.7%, down 120 basis points versus the prior year. This is a result of the planned startup costs for our new NASD facility as well as product mix and some negative pricing effects on our instrumentation business. We offset 90 basis points as we leveraged our cost basis in operating expenses. And as a result, our operating margin was 22.9%, down slightly from 23.1% in the first quarter of last year. Adjusting for the $10 million Coronavirus impact on revenue, operating margins would have increased versus the prior year and so we feel good about our continued opportunity to expand operating margins. We were also able to lower our tax rate slightly to 15.5% and expect that rate to continue for the rest of the year. This resulted a non-GAAP EPS for the quarter coming in at $0.81, at the top end of our guidance and representing 7% growth. Before turning to second quarter guidance, I want to touch on a few other financial metrics. Our operating cash flow was an outflow of $59 million, in line with expectations as we incurred the one-time tax outflow of $226 million related to the transfer of intangibles as noted last quarter. We also paid out $56 million in dividends and purchased 726,000 shares for $60 million. We ended the quarter in a net debt position and a net leverage ratio of 0.9 times. Now let's turn to our non-GAAP financial guidance for Q2. We are anticipating revenues in the range of $1.28 billion to $1.32 billion in the second quarter. This range is larger than we have traditionally provided as we have been tempted to estimate an impact of the Coronavirus on our business in the second quarter. As this is a fluid situation, we thought it would be helpful to detail all our assumptions, particularly as we have seen impact across both Q1 and Q2. Our guidance contemplates a $25 million to $50 million impact in our first half of our fiscal year, which translates to roughly to a 1.5 to three week impact on China revenues. Of this, we saw $10 million in Q1 and we are estimating a net $15 million to $40 million incremental impact in Q2. The Q2 revenue range of $1.28 billion to $1.32 billion translates into reported growth of 3.4% to 6.6% with core growth of 1% to 4%. Currency is expected to have a negative 1.1% impact while M&A is expected to contribute 3.5% to 3.7% in the quarter. We are estimating the Coronavirus to negatively impact our Q2 core growth by one to three points. Our revenue outlook translates Q2 earnings in the range of $0.72 to $0.76 per share, 1.4% to 7% growth versus last year. Importantly, as Mike mentioned, we believe the majority of this business is not lost, rather delayed as customers and the government ramp and recover. In addition, our business outside of China remains strong. As such, we expect a larger second half of the year and are not changing our full year guidance for revenue or EPS. So before starting up the call for questions, I want to conclude by saying we have a very solid start to the year that shows the strength and breadth of our portfolio. It is that portfolio, coupled with the strength of the Agilent team that, despite the uncertainty caused by the Coronavirus, we are maintaining our full year outlook.

Dhingra: Thanks Bob. For Q&A, I would like to request to limit to one question and maybe one quick follow-up.

Peterson: Hi. Thanks. I appreciate you guys quantifying the corona impact. I guess, a couple of things. I mean you have previously talked about mid single digit China expectations for the full year. So should we assume that's still the case, just more back-end loaded? And then, Mike, as we think about collateral damage within China, how should we think about the C&E market, just given that the broader economic activity in China is slowing? So should we think about some impact on C&E as well?

Mullen: Sure, Tycho. I think I will handle both questions. And Bob, correct me if I go off script here. But I think we still think that the mid single digit number is doable for the year in China. What we are seeing already on ground from our team, I was just on the phone today with our team in China, we are still able to transact and orders are actually coming in as forecast. I think that we think a lot of the procurement is going to occur a little bit later in the year. We think a lot of it's recoverable with the exception of probably some aspects of our service business where customers really are looking for service people to arrive on the sites. I think we feel pretty good about how we are thinking about China throughout the rest of the year, albeit it being a very fluid situation. And you know, we really haven't seen any kind of transitory or connected impact on C&E. In fact, C&E actually did better than we were thinking in the first quarter. It's too early to call it a trend but some of the PMIs are actually inching up which would maybe give an indication of perhaps a better outlook and some initial noise in some of our major accounts about thinking on procurement. But we still remain cautious in terms of the outlook for C&E but I am f encouraged by the Q1 results. And again, we are not really seeing significant movements around in that area on a global basis. And we think back to the first comment on China, we weren't expecting a lot in C&E this year in China anyway. So I think we are in pretty solid shape relative to the outlook there as well.

Peterson: And then a follow-up on biopharma. You grew 3% on a 10% comp. Last quarter, it was 7% on a 14% comp. So you know, was that a pull forward last quarter? And if so, can you maybe just talk to that dynamic?

Mullen: Yes. And then within the pharma numbers, Tycho, the biopharma segment really was strong for us again this quarter as well. And then we think as the 4+7 initiative rolls out in the latter part of this year, then we will see the growth in the small molecule side of that space. And then, we have really strong growth in NASD and the ACG business is strong in pharma.

Blicker: Maybe just to round out the China dynamic quickly, can you provide some more color on your supply chain exposure? Within China, it sounds like the operating environment is improving. But how should we think about your direct and indirect supply chain exposure? And do you see any risk to your ability to fulfill demand within and outside of China over the course of this year?

Mullen: Yes. Sure, Ryan. Thanks for that question. So as I touched briefly on my call script, we actually have resumed production and are in a really solid position now to not only ship the product to our customers in China, but also products that are manufactured in China to have them exported into the global market environment. And as we have a very diversified global footprint in terms of supply chain and manufacturing capabilities, we think the near term, we are in pretty solid shape relative to ability to meet our commitments from a he shipment perspective. And then you also may recall that starting with the initiation of the U.S. based tariffs, we actually had initiated a movement of a lot of our supply chain out of

Mahon: Yes. Ryan, this is Bob. Just to follow-up, we have twice weekly calls with our team in China, inclusive of logistics as well as our supply chain. And obviously, it's quite dynamic but as it currently stands today, we feel like we have the ability to be able to procure not only raw materials but also produce the finished goods and ship not only within

Blicker: Great. And then maybe just following up with a brief two-parter. Number one, on the food market. It sounds like things were improving a bit prior to this Coronavirus dynamic. Can you talk a little bit more about what you are seeing in the market and if you think that the China portion of that market specifically could be poised to return to growth as we get past this Coronavirus dynamic? And then specifically for gross margin, can you talk about what the timing headwind was for the quarter versus the other dynamics that you called out?

Meehan: Hi. I was hoping could you give us an update on the NASD rollout at the new site and how much that contributed to the quarter in both DGG and the pharma end market?

Mullen: So as I imagine, you maybe getting a little tired of hearing this from Bob and myself. I am going to pull Sam into this conversation. But as we highlighted in the call script, the NASD business continues to ramp as we would expect. We are really pleased with the progress and how we are starting to fill out that factory. Still not yet at full capacity, operating at full capacity yet but it was a contributor to our growth in the first quarter, no doubt. And Sam, anything else you would like to add there?

Raha: No. Mike, you hit the nail the head. The business is performing as we have expected. We continue to see interest in all the customers, the pharma customers that we have given tours to. We are doing work now there for a number of customers. Not to be boring, nothing new to report.

Souda: I know it's been covered quite a bit. But I would really appreciate your thought there, given one of the strongest legacy positions in that country for Agilent. As the recovery happens here, are there certain segments which you think where you will see more acceleration, more faster recovery, certain product lines or certain segments where you would see a recovery faster versus others? And then I was sort of also surprised with growth you are seeing in ACG. CrossLab continues to deliver. I was trying to understand what sort of exposure you had there in China? And given the travel restrictions and everything, are you still able to ship products and service instruments seeing the growth in CrossLab here? Or how much was the impact in CrossLab, if you could quantify?

Mahon: Puneet, let me take, there is a lot into that question. So let me try to hit them. In terms of recovery, we would expect that obviously, the instrumentation portion would recover and within that probably pharma first. And so we would expect that to be prioritized over some of the other markets. In terms of ACG, we continue to be pleased by the broad-based strength there. Actually even in China, despite kind of the reduced selling days, it grew 11%. We do expect probably a slower ramp up there, less on the consumable side as the factories are getting back to production, but more on the services side, as you can imagine having our folks getting into labs right now is fairly difficult and there is a portion of that would be on demand for servicing equipment. And so we would see that probably ramp up a little slower in Q2 but then ramp back up to normal, latter half of Q2 and into Q3 and Q4. At least, that's our current assumption. As Mike mentioned, we have been in close contact with our teams in China and have been watching the order flow. And the order flow to-date is, across both ACG and LSAG as well as our

Souda: Okay. And any sense in terms of the exposure that you have in China and could that mix change in the next quarter or so?

Arias: Mike, just back to Tycho's biopharma question. Hi Mike. Next quarter, I think the comp goes way down to low singles for that customer segment. So where are you feeling like biopharma growth heads in 2Q as we just think about the momentum in the favorable comparison, but also China? Can that be more mid singles when we net out the moving parts there?

Mullen: Hi Dan. I think that's a reasonable expectation. So when I was asked earlier about the pharma, we remain confident about our ability to grow in pharma. You know, part of it's going to be the pickup and continued growth that we are going to have in our NASD business. We also know that we are getting to some of the easier compares relative to the LSAG instrument business, because as you may all recall that's in the Q2 is when we starting seeing the slowdown as China went through this whole looking at their procurement practices around the generics. So we think there is a lot of good reason to be positive about the ability to have a higher growth rate in the outer quarters than we did in

Arias: Okay. And then maybe one again for you, Mike or maybe even Sam. It feels like 1Q is always a good time to ask this question, just given that most are heading down to AGBT. Any update you can give us on Lasergen product development? How much of a focus is that at this point? And then maybe what are you looking at in terms of the change in total investment there if we compare 2020 to 2019?

Kumar: Understood. And Bob, a quick one on the EPS guidance here. I see that the tax rate ticked down sequentially on the guidance front. Did anything change on the margins at all because it looks like the revenue range remains unchanged? So I am wondering if this is below the line or margins some sort of impact here?

Beuchaw: I guess first I wanted to start with Bob with just a question about one of the underpinnings of the outlook for the year that hasn't been touched on so much just yet and it's NASD, maybe a two-parter on NASD. One is, do you think we feel good about getting to a few dozen millions of dollars of contribution from NASD? And then can you give us any perspective and I guess maybe this is a Sam question, as to how much of the capacity on the new facility in Fredrick is now contracted?

Mahon: Sure. Yes. Let me make sure I answer your question correctly. What I would say is, Q1 came in slightly better than what we expected on the ramp. So we feel very good about that trajectory. Obviously, you know the second half of the year is going to be significantly greater than the first half of the year as we ramp up that business.

Dhingra: All right. Thanks everyone. With that, we would like to wrap up the call for today.

Mullen: Thanks, Ankur, and thanks, everyone, for joining our call today. I want to add my best wishes as well and hope that you and your families are safe and healthy. I'm pleased to have Padraig McDonnell, our President of the Agilent CrossLab Group, joining us for the first time today. As I mentioned last quarter, Mark Doak has retired from the company and Padraig is now leading the ACG. I know you’ll enjoy getting to know Padraig better in his new role. I'm glad he could be here with us on the call. Last quarter, Agilent was among the first to discuss the business impacts of COVID-19. Since then, much has changed as COVID-19 is now a global pandemic. The world is a very different place than it was back in February. But what hasn't changed is the attitude and execution of the Agilent team and our unwavering focus in four key areas. Let me first talk about how we are protecting our people. Our top priority is ensuring the health and safety of the Agilent team. Early on, we entered the global work-from-home policy and severely restricted travel. We implemented new work practices and safety protocols for our manufacturing teams and service engineers visiting customer laboratories. The team is really stepping up. True to the Agilent mission, our response to COVID-19 is driven by our commitment to our people and our customers. It should be no surprise then that our second area of focus is unwavering commitment to our customers. We are and have been open for business. From the early stage of the pandemic, we took decisive action to secure our global business operations. We are using innovative and more efficient ways to support our customers, from leveraging our digital capabilities, promote technical assistance to urgently delivering Bravo liquid handler systems for their COVID-19 test or providing live online guidance to keep labs functioning. We're doubling down on our efforts to support our customers. This is especially true as their needs change and evolve. Our third focus area is taking quick and decisive action to preserve a strong P&L and balance sheet. When we experienced significant disruption to business activity in late March, we made change in our supply chain, logistics and business operations. This ensured order intake and our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. We also didn't shy away from taking swift action to reduce expenses. We quickly put in place a cost management program while reprioritize and sustained our growth investments. As we continue to sharpen our plans, we will not put our future growth opportunities at risk. Bob will share more details, but the top priority is monitoring our liquidity and cash flow. We have taken actions to ensure a strong balance sheet and financial flexibility. The positive impact of our approach shows in our Q2 results. In the midst of the spread of the global pandemic, the Agilent team delivered Q2 revenues of $1.24 billion. This is flat on a reported basis and down a little less than 2% on a core basis. Our Q2 operating margin of 22.4% are up 50 basis points. We posted earnings per share of $0.71 during the quarter, flat versus our results a year ago. Before covering additional Q2 detail, a few comments on our fourth key area of focus, our continued prioritization on growth. Our building and buying growth strategy remains firmly in place while we are taking decisive action on our cost structure to respond to the COVID-19 impact. We are continuing to prioritize investments in fast-growing markets such as biopharma that deliver incremental growth and help us create a more resilient business. When we all come out of this on the other side, Agilent will be poised for growth. Our Q2 pharma growth is being driven by the strength of our biopharma business. This is a direct result of our building and buying strategy in action. Our approach to investing for growth continue to serve us well and will be a major factor and help us emerge in the current environment stronger than ever. An example of our approach to continually assessing our growth investments is the decision we made regarding our cancer diagnostics strategy and the Lasergen sequencer development program. Given change in the marketplace, we believe we can now capture future growth in the NGS diagnostics space without the need our own sequencer platform. As a result, we made a decision to shutter our sequencer development program. We are redirecting our investments with the valuable intellectual property we’ve created into areas of higher interest. Despite this program change, we remain optimistic about continued growth in NGS cancer diagnostics. Let’s now take a closer look at the quarter as well as the future outlook in today’s COVID-19 world. Last quarter, our attention and revised outlook was focused on our China team, customers and business, as COVID-19 spread to other parts of the world in the second quarter, the situation changed. During February and March, our overall business was up about 1%, however, in late March, we faced significant disruption in business activity as Europe and the Americas restricted access to facilities. Our China business is recovering better than forecasted. We posted 4% core growth in China with increasing strength throughout the quarter. In fact, in April, China posted strong growth, while all other geographies experienced declines. We expect that China growth recovery to continue throughout the year as lab operations and investments continue to resume. The near-term outlook in Europe and the U.S., however, remains challenging, particularly for new equipment parts across most end markets and non-COVID-19 diagnostic testing. Some quick highlights across our businesses, both DGG and ACG delivered core growth. DGG’s 5% growth is driven by NASD, up 35% as the ramp of that business continues as planned. ACG was up 1%. Our LSAG business declined 7% as customers curtailed equipment purchases, although we did have pockets of growth in biopharma, cell analysis and COVID-19 testing and research. From an end market perspective, pharma grew 5% in the quarter, followed by 4% growth in diagnostics and clinical. The food market continues its recovery with a modest 1% growth driven by China. Our environmental and forensics business is down 1% for the quarter. In Q2, academia and chemical and energy are the end markets that are most impacted, down 16% and 10%, respectively. We expect continued pressure in these markets throughout the rest of the year, although we are seeing some pockets of growth in chemical production regionally as some customers shift supply chains. Looking forward, we expect Q3 to be the most challenging quarter of the year, with gradual improvement during the course of the quarter and continuing into Q4. As a key player in the life science industry, Agilent also has an important role to play in the fight against COVID-19. Before closing, I’d like to share a few thoughts on our COVID-19 offerings. While the COVID-19 virus is negatively affecting our overall growth at this time, Agilent is supporting several aspects of COVID-19 research and testing, along with therapeutic and vaccine development. In Q2, this resulted in a one-point tailwind of growth, primarily in providing instrumentation. There is potential that this will become a more meaningful tailwind in future quarters. To address this, we have mobilized across Agilent team to maximize support to customers around the globe fighting the virus. These offerings range from instrumentation, such as automation, PCR and marketplace testing to consumables and components necessary for testing as well as lab support to these customers. As we enter Q3, I want you to know that the global Agilent team is energized and remains focused on supporting our customers and driving growth. We have taken swift and decisive actions to ensure a continued strong P&L and balance sheet. We remain a diversified, resilient company with a bias for speed, execution and growth. Thank you for being on the call. I will have a few closing comments after Bob speaks, and then we look forward to taking your questions. And now, Bob, you’re up.

Mahon: Thank you, Mike, and good afternoon, everyone. Before I begin, I want to repeat what Mike and Ankur said and hoping that you are doing well and staying safe. Looking forward, I, for one, am confident we will get through this and look forward to the day when we can follow up these calls with face-to-face meetings again. In my remarks today, I’ll provide some additional detail on revenue, walk through the second quarter income statement and some other key financial metrics, and then finish up with a framework for thinking about Q3. Given the current volatility and uncertainty that exists, we’re not going to be providing specific forward-looking guidance today. That said, in the spirit of trying to be helpful and transparent, we will provide a glimpse into the evolution of our business during the second quarter and our thought process and how things may play out in the coming quarter. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. Reported revenue for the quarter was $1.24 billion, which was flat versus last year on a reported basis. Currency negatively impacted revenue by 1.6 percentage points and acquisitions added 3.3 percentage points to growth. On a core basis, revenue declined 1.7% in the quarter. The pacing of revenue during the quarter varies significantly by region driven by where each region was in the cycle of precautionary measures, being taken to slow their spread of the virus. As we previously disclosed, we saw overall business activity slow in late March, driven by the U.S. and Europe. The stay-at-home measures in those regions reduce lab operations and limited lab access and our ability to install equipment. This lower level of business activity carry through the month of April resulting in double digit declines for the month in those regions. On the other hand, and as we had anticipated business activity picked up throughout the quarter in China, as restrictions were slowly lifted. We saw strong growth in China in April, partially due to catch up from lower business volumes in February and March. Overall, China grew 4% for the quarter, exceeding our initial expectations at the start of Q2. In total for Q2, quarter-to-date results through March were up 1%, while April was down roughly 6.5%, resulting in the 1.7% core decline. Before getting into some additional group details, it’s also important to note while we have seen some order push outs, we have not seen increased order cancellations. While there are always some level of cancellations in both March and April cancellations were actually lower than the previous year. Our resilient business model was extremely important to us as we navigated the effects of a challenging environment. As Mike mentioned, DGG and ACG both grew on a core basis, while LSAG instrument business declined. LSAG declined 7% core in the quarter, but did see some bright spots with growth in large molecule pharma, cell analysis and COVID-19 testing and research. In addition as Mike mentioned, we had modest growth in the food market. For LSAG the impact of COVID-19 related closures was most pronounced in the Academia and government and chemical and energy markets. ACG grew 1% with China growing in the high single digits. Our ACG results were negatively affected by delays and installations and lab closures in Europe and the Americas during the quarter. And I’m pleased to say that our DDG business delivered 5% growth during Q2, and it was on track for double digit growth prior to the slowdown in U.S. and Europe. We saw sequential growth in genomics, boosted by products used to develop testing capabilities and for vaccine research into COVID-19. And as Mike mentioned, our NASD ramp remains on track and delivered excellent growth this quarter as well. The pathology business grew in all regions except for the U.S. where the affects of delayed and non-COVID-19 related medical procedures was more pronounced in April. On a geographic basis, all regions ranged from flat to down 4% for the quarter with Europe down 4%, Americas down 1% and Asia Pacific flat. And within Asia, as we mentioned, China grew 4%. Now let’s turn to the rest of the P&L. As the expanded impact of the pandemic became apparent, we moved quickly and decisively to adjust our cost trucker through targeted discretionary spending program reductions. We continue to invest in our key growth opportunities and important capabilities, such as digital. For example, we leverage digital and virtual reality investments for our field service engineers to continue to support our customers where we did not have physical lab access. While we took actions across the P&L, we focus most of our effort on SG&A. R&D investments as a percentage of revenue were largely unchanged from the prior year. As a result operating margins of 22.4% improved 50 basis points over last year on flat revenue. Gross margin at 55.4% was down 60 basis points versus the prior year, mostly due to volume and the revenue mix shifting more towards services. In addition, we saw higher logistics costs as moving goods internationally became more expensive. This combination of factors resulted in non-GAAP EPS for the quarter coming in at $0.71 per share flat with the number we posted a year ago. Now in terms of the balance sheet, we were in the market early in the quarter, repurchasing 1.66 million shares for $126 million. In late March, however, we suspended all our share repurchases to maximize our liquidity and financial position. While not in our current plans for Q3, we continue to monitor and evaluate when repurchases will resume. We generated $313 in operating cash flow during the quarter, which is a $61 million improvement over last year, despite building some raw material inventory to assure supply. Additionally, we've taken steps to reduce our capital spending by roughly one-third for the rest of the year. In addition, we ended the quarter in a strong position with $2.1 billion in available liquidity, including $1.3 billion in cash and roughly $800 million available under our revolving credit facility. Our net leverage ratio as defined by net debt to EBITDA was 0.9 times. Given our cash flows and our strong financial position, there is no change to our dividend. As you may recall, we withdrew our 2020 guidance in mid-April due to the uncertainty surrounding the duration and severity of the global COVID-19 pandemic and the impact on the global economic environment. While various countries have started working towards reopening, the pace and effect of global reopening efforts is still unknown. So we won't be providing guidance for Q3 or the full year. However, we did want to provide a framework and a range of possibilities for how our business could unfold in the coming quarter. When we look at Q3, we expect May to be very similar and the business activity is very similar to April and the business activity we've seen in the first few weeks of the month confirmed that. We anticipate that China will remain ahead of the curve in terms of economic recovery, relative to the rest of the world. We expect pharma and our services, particularly contracted services, which make up the majority of our service revenue to remain resilient. And we will be following the consumables business very closely to monitor early signs of recovery and demand patterns. A combination of these factors could result in our revenues being down between 5% and 15% on a core basis. At the lower end of the decline, we assume activity in June and July will continue to improve, with the COVID-19 offerings Mike mentioned having a more significant impact than the 1$ contribution in Q2. On the higher end of the decline, we’re building in the assumption that there would be no significant improvement throughout the course of the quarter in the U.S., and Europe, that non-COVID-19 testing would not recover, and China would plateau. While this is a wide range, there is still significant uncertainty in the pace of recovery as the U.S., and Europe are currently lifting restrictions. We hope that the 15% decline proves very conservative but wanted to provide you with some of the assumptions we are using to manage going forward. In Q3, we expect a two-point headwind due to exchange rates, and M&A should be a three-point tailwind. Again, this is not formal guidance, but should give you a sense for some of the variables we are looking at within the business and believe this is the best way to view the third quarter given the uncertainties that exist. As Mike said, we also believe that fiscal year as the world works through reopening the economy. Overall, I feel we are very well positioned to deal with this challenging environment, accelerate market share gains and come out even stronger as the global economy recovers. Before I turn the call back over to Mike, I want to conclude by saying Agilent’s performance for the first two quarters truly shows the resiliency of our company. I also want to thank the Agilent team for remaining focused on supporting our customers during this time. And, I’d be remiss without a shout out to the finance team for being able to close the books in such a professional manner with everyone working from home. We’ve taken the actions that will serve us incredibly well through the rest of 2020 and into the future. And with that, I believe Mike would like to share some final thoughts before we move on to the Q&A. Mike?

Mullen: Yes, thanks, Bob. Before we take your questions, I want to close by saying that I couldn’t be more proud of our Agilent team. The idea that difficult situations provide the opportunity for organizations and individuals to step up and exhibit strength, leadership and resiliency has never been more true at Agilent. The Agilent team has been tested during this crisis like no other time and they have not shied away from it. Instead, we have answered the call with world class execution, an even stronger focus on customer service and an inspired creativity that is second to none. I am absolutely convinced we will emerge from this pandemic as an even stronger force in the marketplace. And, with that, I will turn things over to

Mahon: Yes. Thank you, Tycho. And this is Bob, I'll take the question. I'll actually take the second question first around NASD. The NASD growth is on the ramp that we had talked about previously. It actually had nothing to do with COVID-19 testing or research. It's mostly the activities that have continued in our pipeline of products and clinical testing that has happened. And we're very pleased with the progress there. So that has nothing to do with the COVID-19 testing. On the first question that you had, again, this isn't guidance it's kind of a range of scenarios that we're planning. And we hope that the bottom end of that or the minus 15% would be very conservative. If you look at, we are expecting May to be very similar to April, which would hopefully be the bottom and then improvement in June and July. And but if there are relapses, if China does relapse, or there is a slowdown in that growth that would be the bottom end of the range. So it's a wider range than we would normally have. But there's obviously very much a lot of uncertainty around the forecast.

Peterson: And on the uncertainty, chemical and energy, you mentioned customer shifting supply chains. Can you maybe just talk about how much of the sequential step down here at C&E and given the volatility in oil purchase, how much of a factor that is?

Mullen: Sure. Yes, Bob, I'll take that one. So I think for C&E for Q3, basically, we assume than it kind of looks like Q2 and with the potential that the investments that we're starting to see inclinations of a regional approach to this pandemic is really cause many parts of world to rethink their supply chain. So we're seeing early indications of moving of on shoring ensuring certain types of critical chemical components in certain geographies. So that could represent some upside I think. But basically, we're assuming kind of current situation continues into

Mahon: Yes, Tyco, if you look – if we took our chemical and energy end market and looked at the first two months versus April, they were roughly the same. So we said it was down 10% in the quarter. It didn't have a material change in April. One of the businesses that did was academia and government. So academia and government with the lab closures and so forth was worse in April than it was in other markets. But chemical and energy was pretty steady throughout the quarter now albeit down.

Donnelly: Okay. And then maybe on the other side of COVID, obviously, academic labs closing during this understandable that they should snapback quickly. I guess, how do you feel about the C&E segment? Does it feel different where, again, labs reopening, demand comes back quickly, do you think this will linger because of the oil prices? What’s your outlook, maybe again? Not asking for guidance by any means, but over the next 6 months to 12 months, does this have the potential to linger versus some of the other ones that should snapback?

Mullen: In my prepared remarks, we basically said we expect this segment to be subdued for the foreseeable future. So it’s really just tied to events that I’m just not smart enough to figure out myself, which is when does global growth start to get solidified and when does it start to turn. I think what we wanted to point out, there actually are some little glimmers of positive aspects of C&E business, particularly the COVID-19 has exposed the fragility of the world’s supply chain. And we’re seeing many customers and many governments, they want certain critical components made in their country and made in their region. So we are seeing indications across multiple industries of onshoring initiatives actually starting, which would speak to some longer-term growth prospects in this space. But don’t get too excited. This – I would just say, let’s assume that it’s going to stay subdued for a while as we’re thinking about it right now. Hence, the reason why we went through the guidance in Q2, because some of these are just too difficult to predict the timing of transition.

Mahon: Yes. And I would say, Patrick, just on that, obviously, the more subdued piece is the instrumentation…

Donnelly: That’s really helpful. And then a very quick cleanup on NASD, following up Tycho’s question there. Do you guys have capacity to increase the address demand from COVID? Or are you already kind of maxed out in terms of the build out and just as you build out capacity, it’s kind of addressing?

Mullen: We are not capacity constrained. And now, we continue to build out the new facility in Frederick as well as optimizing our Boulder facility. And while I can’t share specific names, I can tell you that there are programs underway that aren’t in the revenue yet right now that are related to

Bruin: Hello, good afternoon. Hi. Couple of questions, just a couple of cleanups. The NASD base now in 2Q, what’s that – where are we in terms of revenues? That was up 35%. I’m just curious on the base.

Mullen: And there’s some real talent in that team, and there’s some really great intellectual property that we think we can really deploy in other programs. So we’re looking to go forward that combo approach, as

Bruin: So you mentioned that you’re seeing some of your chemical customers think about their supply chains and move around. What about the pharmaceutical customers? I mean, obviously, there’s a push looking about bringing API manufacturing back, and you’re a big player there. And this also sort of dovetails with another question on geopolitical tensions. And are you worried about the longer-term impacts of what’s happening now between the U.S. and China in terms of your China business?

Mahon: Yes. I’ll – hey Derik, this is Bob. Yes. I’ll take the first one, and I’ll leave the second one to Mike. I think on the pharmaceutical one, we’re actually watching that very closely. It’s different than the chemical side because I think the chemical side will probably move a little faster than this. Obviously, there’s regulations, but you are seeing discussions about that even as recently as earlier this week about the U.S. providing a contract here in the U.S. for some APIs and so forth. So we actually think – we’re watching that closely, and we think that, that could be an opportunity for us as those new labs or capacity come out, because our offering here is, I think, second to none, and so more to come there. It’s probably not as fast-moving, but we certainly is on our radar screen.

Mullen: And without waiting in too deeply on the political dimension of things today, what I can tell you is we’re actively scenario planning. We – under potential scenarios around changes in trade policies and supply chain. So we don’t want to be caught in the reactive mode that we were when tariffs were first announced a few years ago. So our teams are really working through a number of different strategies right now.

Bruin: While Agilent doesn’t do – you don’t supply testing products for COVID-19. I mean, obviously, how are you thinking about testing and deploying testing for your employees? And I’m sort of curious about, are your customers demanding that you get tested or people come in? Because there’s some very large numbers being thrown around in terms of the size of the testing market. And so I’m just curious in terms of what you’re thinking.

Mullen: Thanks, Ankur, and thanks, everyone, for joining us on our call today. The Agilent team delivered excellent results in the third quarter in the midst of a historic global pandemic. Against this backdrop, Agilent's performance once again highlights the strength and resiliency of our team and our business. Agilent's Q3 revenues are $1.26 billion. Our revenues are down just 1% on a reported basis, despite COVID-19 headwinds in what we expect to be the year's most challenging quarter. On a core basis, revenues are down 3%. These results demonstrate the strong resilience we have built into our business over the past several years. EPS is $0.78 per share. This is a 3% year-over-year increase. Operating margin grew 90 basis points over last year to 23.7%. Our Q3 results are further evidence of the success of our profitable build-and-by growth strategy. We continue to build a more resilient growth oriented business. Last quarter, I talked to you about the four key priorities we're focused on during the

D- 19 pandemic: Protecting our people; being open for business for our customers; taking decisive action to deliver our P&L and balance sheet; and unwavering commitment to growth. Staying focused on these priorities has helped us navigate through the COVID-19 effects on our team, customers and business. Our customers continue to respond very favorably to our team's engagement and enhanced digital capabilities. In fact, Q3 customer satisfaction rankings are at all-time highs. In all regions, we're seeing improvement in lab access for our customers and increase non-COVID-19 testing volumes. There are, however, regional and end-market differences in the pacing of improvement. Labs access improved through the quarter, although still not at pre-COVID-19 levels. Globally, lab access remains limited in academia, non-COVID-19 research and testing labs. We're also seeing continued limited access at some private sector research labs in Europe and United States. Similarly, non-COVID-19 diagnostic testing volumes improved throughout the quarter, but remained down from prior levels. Hospital access in Europe and the U.S. is improving, although disrupted at times by virus flare up. While there are indications of improvement in economic growth at varying degrees across the globe, caution remains at customer capital expenditure decisions. Consistent with our thinking coming into the quarter, the pace of recovery varied by region. As expected, China led the way for us and exceeded our expectations with revenues up 11%. China's growth in the quarter is broad-based across all end market and for all business groups. While improving the rate of recovery in Europe, and the Americas lags China, given the timing when these reasons first felt the brunt of the pandemic, European revenues are down 5%. Americas market conditions trailed both China and Europe with revenues declining 10%. However, as we exited the quarter, we are seeing signs of improvement in service activity, consumables and diagnostic testing volumes. On a total Company basis, we exited July with modest growth across all major markets. Now, let's talk about our performance by business groups. Our Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group grew 2% on a reported basis and declined 4%. Our team is focused and determined to gain market share despite a constrained capital environment. The strength of our portfolio coupled with an energized and stable sales team is paying dividends. I'm also very proud of contributions are selling our cell analysis technologies are making in COVID-19 virus research. Our M&A strategy is working and making a difference in the pandemic fight. Our CrossLab Group revenues grew 1%. Increase in customer activity led to increased sales of consumables and an uptake of on-demand services. The CrossLab team continues to win large, multiyear contracts for enterprise laboratory management that will benefit us moving forward. We will continue to increase our competitiveness in this space. Our Diagnostics and Genomics Group revenues declined 8%. While our overall pathology and genomics businesses are down for the quarter, we did see gradual improvement in diagnostic testing volumes and non-COVID-19 lab openings. Partially offsetting this, our nucleic acid solution business delivered another strong quarter, growing almost 25%. We are very excited about the future of our NASD business. As we announced earlier today, we plan to more than double oligo manufacturing capacity and our new Frederick, Colorado site. This expansion helps us meet significantly increasing customer demand. We are growing double-digit and expect to continue this rate of growth in the coming years. We continue to advance in our portfolio across all our businesses. Highlights during the quarter included LSAG launching two new LC/MS products in Agilent 6470B Triple Quad and the Agilent RapidFire 400 systems. Both products are in high throughput labs, driving productivity and superior resolution. We launched our CrossLab Asset Monitoring service, which is a new subscription service using instrument sensor technologies to provide data driven usage insights. This helps drive improved customer economics and lab productivity. While early, we are seeing strong interest from customers in this service. During the quarter, our PD-L1 assay was approved by the FDA for expanded use of non-small cell lung cancer, helping guide physicians in selecting treatments using specific immunotherapies. Our team is very proud of the role their company is playing in the global COVID-19 play. We are supporting COVID-19 research, testing and therapeutic of vaccine development. Our efforts in the global fight against the virus delivered 2 percentage points of reported growth. We are accelerating efforts to make a difference in the battle against COVID-19 and have mobilized across Agilent team to maximize customer support. Let me close with few comments on our outlook in the coming quarter. While there's still significant uncertainty regarding the continued pace of recovery, we expect the July trend of gradual improvement in our business to continue into Q4. By region, China will continue to be a positive story for us and lead return to growth. Europe is starting to trend upward. The Americas are also expected to improve but at lower rate than China and Europe. Globally, improved lab access, increasing non-COVID-19 testing and a slowly recovering global economy are all positive signs. I remain absolutely convinced Agilent will emerge from this pandemic with a stronger position in the marketplace. Our continued focus action on four priorities, protect the team; support our customers; preserve our P&L and balance sheet; and our unwavering investment in growth are delivering. Entering Q4, we are operating from a position of strength and with momentum. Yes, this pandemic remains unpredictable. However, I am cautiously optimistic about our continued gradual recovery and return to growth. Before I hand the call over to Bob, I'd like to pause and share my hope that you and your loved ones are staying safe and healthy. Thanks for being on the call. I look forward to taking your question after

Mahon: Thank you, Mike, and good afternoon, everyone. Today, I'll provide some additional detail on revenue, walk through the third quarter income statement and some other key financial metrics. And then, I'll finish up with a framework for thinking about Q4. As with last quarter, there are still too many unknowns. So, we're not going to provide formal forward-looking guidance today. However, we will provide a framework for how we see things potentially playing out in Q4. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. As Mike mentioned, our revenue for the quarter was $1.26 billion, down 1% on a reported basis. On a core basis, revenue declined 3.1% in the quarter, currency negatively affected revenue by 1.3 percentage points, while acquisitions added 3.4 percentage points to growth. As Mike talked about the regional performance, I'll speak to the end-market performance. In terms of our end markets, pharma grew 2% in Q3 against a very strong comparison of 13% from last year. Both, small and large molecule applications grew and biopharma improved throughout the quarter as drug development labs increased production and access. We experienced softness in diagnostics and clinical, as anticipated. Revenues declined 10%, primarily due to conditions in the U.S., driven by COVID-19-related disruptions to patient visits and diagnostic lab opportunities. Encouragingly, we did see an improvement in routine testing throughout the quarter, especially in China and Europe, while the U.S. lagged. Chemical and energy was down 10%, consistent with our thinking. Revenues were generally flat sequentially with conditions largely similar to what we saw in Q2. As we've talked about previously, we expect this segment to ramp more slowly than others. The food segment was a bright spot, up 8%. We're seeing ongoing signals that the market in China has stabilized with the transition of more testing by commercial labs. The food market was just one of several bright spots that contributed to double-digit growth in China, including growth in the low-teens for our pharma business. Our environmental and forensics business declined mid-single-digits against the double-digit compare and the academic and government segments declined mid-single-digits, while improving on a sequential basis in Q3. Strength in cell analysis and liquid handling for viral research partially offset the widespread impact of the ongoing academic lab closes. Now, let's turn to the rest of the P&L. I'm extremely proud of how the Agilent team has responded to the challenging environment. During the quarter, we continued our focus on managing expenses, while ensuring we continue to invest in our key growth opportunities. These expense management actions we initiated last quarter were on full display in Q3. In addition, our customer engagement model using digital tools continued to gain traction, while also delivering savings in SG&A. As a result, operating margins of 23.7% improved 90 basis points over last year on declining revenues. Gross margin at 55.1% was down 130 basis points versus the prior year, largely due to mix, and higher logistics costs. However, strong cost management and operating expenses more than offset the decline in gross margin. This combination of factors resulted in non-GAAP EPS for the quarter coming in at $0.78 per share, up nearly 3% from the number we posted a year ago. From a balance sheet perspective, we generated $290 million in operating cash flow during the quarter, which is $48 million improvement over last year. In terms of capital spending, we spent $25 million, lower than last year and in line with our revised look in Q2. We ended the quarter in a strong position with $2.3 billion in available liquidity, including $1.36 billion in cash. Also during the quarter, we took advantage of low interest rates and refinanced $0.5 billion in short-term debt with a 10-year bond and a 2.1% coupon, the lowest coupon in our portfolio. As you know, we paused share buybacks in Q2, pending improvement in business conditions. In Q3, our visibility into business trends and cash flow improved, and we resumed anti-dilutive share repurchases late in the quarter. In the quarter, in total, we repurchase 360,000 shares for $33 million. Going forward, we intend to resume our normal pattern of regular anti-dilutive repurchases, along with additional opportunistic buying. Our overall capital deployment approach remains balanced with the primary focus on growth M&A opportunities, while also returning the cash to shareholders via dividends and buybacks. As we look to Q4, business and trends have gradually improved, but significant uncertainty remains around the evolution of this pandemic. However, let me provide a framework for how we see a range of possible revenue growth scenarios in the coming quarter. We generally expected trajectory of gradual improvement in business results to continue across all regions. Areas where we see a broader range of scenarios include research spending, both in academia and other markets, non-COVID diagnostic testing, especially in the U.S., and the general CapEx environment. The combination of these factors could result in scenarios where our revenue performance could range from a 4% decline to 1% core growth. Also, as a reminder, the BioTek acquisition closed midway through Q4 of last year. So, the M&A impact in Q4 will be smaller than in previous quarters, roughly 1 point growth and currency is forecasted to be positive in the quarter. The low end of this range envisions COVID-19 flare-ups occurring in the fall in various geographies, limiting and in some cases, reversing the recovery gains we've seen in a period of time. In this scenario, one might expect to see slower or stalled improvements in research, academia and other markets as continued tight cash management leading to lower CapEx spending in the U.S. and Europe. We hope this bottom end of the range is overly conservative, but we wanted to let you know, we have plans in place in case this happens. The higher end of the range assumes continued recovery by region, building on what we have seen in July, with the biggest impact coming from the U.S. This would include a continual increase in elective medical procedures such as cancer screenings, as well as continued lab openings. This view would also include continued China momentum, along with the continued improvement in Europe and other areas in the Americas. Again, this is not guidance, but should provide a sense for some of the variables we see for Q4. Overall, I feel we are very well positioned to deal with this challenging environment, accelerate market share gains and come out even stronger as the global economy continues its path to recovery. With that, I'll turn over things to Ankur to direct the Q&A. Ankur?

Schenkel: I’m doing well. Nice work in a tough environment. Can we maybe just start with a clean-up question right off the bat which is just about the prepared remarks. I don't think you quantified COVID-19 tailwinds in the quarter. Again, I may have missed that. But, it just would be helpful to get that so we could try to normalize there?

Peterson: I guess, that's a good segue on the NASD expansion. Could you maybe draw to what degree that's tied to the COVID vaccine, and any updates from your add-on capabilities on APIs for mRNA or siRNA vaccines?

Raha: Yes, sure. No problem. Tycho, I'd start by reiterating a little bit of what Mike and Bob were talking about. It's interesting that it was just last June that we did a ribbon cutting and starting of the new Frederick, Colorado facility. And quite frankly, we've seen demand that exceeded our expectations, just 12 months ago. So, building really -- sorry, the new manufacturing line that we're building, you can consider it, as we call it, training on steroids as our general. But, it is very-differentiated, both in throughput and the molecules it can do, which is a segue to your -- a little bit of your question that we're able to do multiple iterations or types of siRNA or RNA. We're also actively looking at other different versions of molecules that are oligo based. Though I can't reveal the details, we have had a lot of interest related to COVID-19, all of those used for either COVID-19-related therapeutics or even for vaccines. So,

Mahon: Yes. And maybe Sam to add. That being said, the capacity expansion isn't tied to COVID-19. We have plenty of demand outside of COVID-19 therapeutics and vaccines.

Mahon: Yes. Probably -- C&E is probably the one that's -- I would expect it to be pretty stable and that down 10ish percent -- 8% to 10% in that range. We do expect pharma to continue to improve. So that 2% certainly even in the low scenario would stay there and then on the high scenario would accelerate, which is consistent with the trends we've seen throughout the quarter of

Mullen: And Tycho, the supply chain consideration and discussions still happen and it gets added a level of stability, albeit down to this -- into the space. And, again, as you look ahead for the future, this is an area where eventually it'll come back, and again, too early to call. But,

Mahon: Yes. The way to think about those reshoring is those are opportunities and discussions that could happen through the order book, and then will happen actually in '21 and beyond in terms of investments are being made.

Mahon: The only thing I would add is just reiterate what Jacob was saying, because it's not just China. I think, when you look at our LSAG portfolio, I think what people don't fully appreciate is, is how we've actually changed the portfolio to technology platforms, they're probably the best -- in the best shape they have been in probably five years in terms of new products and so forth. And I think you're seeing that across the globe. And when we think about where we ended up in Q3, LSAG was certainly the standout relative to where we thought they were going to be. In a capital constrained environment only down 4% on a core basically speaks to our responsiveness to customers.

Couillard: Bob, on the gross margin line, you mentioned higher logistics cost in the third quarter. Is that a new trend? And then, could you help us just think through some of the puts and takes, whether it's logistics costs or mix and how those puts and takes might evolve in the fourth quarter?

Mahon: Yes. Sure. We’re hoping that's not a trend that's going to be around for a while, but it certainly was exacerbated in the Q3. That being said, I would say three quarters of that was probably mix, when you look at the various businesses across each one of the groups. But, where we saw logistics, challenges are, it's lower capacity and freight and air capacity. But we would expect that -- and we actually saw that through the quarter to kind of relax. And I think as you’re starting to see more intercontinental travel, both from a passenger standpoint as well as freight standpoint we would expect that to kind of relax over time.

Couillard: Okay. And then, Bob or Mike, you're not quite giving formal forward-looking guidance yet, but you do feel comfortable enough to restart the buyback program. Just what are your latest thoughts just around comfort as far as capital deployment goes and maybe your appetite for M&A right now and what the funnel might look like there?

Mahon: I'll take the first one just real quick. And then, Mike, if you want to add something on the second one. We announced that we would make that $150 million investment and we would expect it to go live towards the end of 2022. So, it's taking a little longer than just a regular train. Sam mentioned train A on steroids. So, it's bigger, and probably take a little more capital. And obviously with COVID-19 there's some activity there in terms of little long lead time. But, we feel like we have the capacity to be able to manage us through that time, and then that will come online at the end of 2020.

Mullen: Yes. I think, it’s perhaps end of '22. And don’t specifically talk about specific targets or areas of focus, certainly, but it's not out of the realm of reason that I would say, why wouldn’t we want to further expand this business inorganically as well? So, that's not out of the realm. I'm not singling anything near-term happening. But we think we're operating from a position of strength here in this business. We had a first -- get our new factory up and running and build for that. So, we now think we have a, if you will, a beachhead to build from both, organically and inorganically.

Schulte: I guess, first, despite the relatively good LSAG results in the quarter, it sounds like the outlook on the capital equipment side is still a bit uncertain. Can you just talk to how the services and consumable side of the business trended in July, and what your expectations are for instrumentation trends in the coming quarters?

Willoughby: Just one question for you. A lot of my other questions have already been answered. 90 days ago, you made a brief comment about potential onshoring back in the U.S. Just was wondering if there's any update on that at all?

Mullen: Thanks, Steve. Happy to comment on that. I think, that's still going to happen. And these things take time. But, there's active discussion. And, by the way, I wouldn't say it's just confined I the United States. I mean, many geographies are now looking at the security of their supply chain, both in the pharma side as well as in the chemical marketplace where they're providing precursors into the APIs for the pharma chains. So, there's nothing significant to announce relative to the impact on business, but there does seem to be an overall trend in this regard. And I can say also from an Agilent perspective, we're working hard to make sure that our supply chain is secure as well. So, I think that the COVID-19 pandemic is a real wake up call to really some vulnerabilities in some aspects of supply chain. So, we're kind of working both sides of it, which are to ensure our own ability to deliver product under multiple scenarios, as well as we do see some market trends underway. Bob, I know you take a look at this pretty…

Mahon: Yes. Just to build on that, we talked a little bit about earlier in the call. We would expect that to see some of that opportunity show in our order book. And that's probably more a ‘21 timeframe for revenue. I wouldn't expect any of that to happen in Q4, just given the kind of timing. But you're seeing it in multiple end markets in multiple regions.

Mahon: Yes. That's what we actually -- we saw that -- Jack, some of that actually happened in Q3. And as people are going back into the labs physically there, then they can install the instrumentation. But to Mike's point, we've seen no cancellation or lower cancellations than what we would have last year. There's always some level of it. I would say that we've been extraordinarily pleased.

Mullen: Thanks, Ankur, and thanks to everyone for joining us on our call today. Today, I want to get straight to our quarterly results, because they tell a very compelling story. The Agilent team delivered a very strong close to 2020. We posted revenues of $1.48 billion during the quarter. Revenues are up 8% on a reported basis, and up 6% core. Operating margins are a healthy 24.9%. EPS of $0.98 is up 10% year-over-year. These numbers tell the story of a strong resilient company that's built for continued growth. Our better than expected results are due to the strength of our core business, along with signs of recovery in our end markets. Geographically, China continues to lead the way with double-digit growth. From an end-market view, both our pharmaceutical and food businesses grew double-digits. In addition, our chemical and energy business grew after two quarters of declines, exceeding our expectations. We also saw a rebound in U.S. sales during the quarter. Overall, COVID-19 tailwinds contributed just over two points of core growth. Achieving these results in the face of a global pandemic is a tribute to our team and the company we've built over the last five years. I couldn't be more pleased with the way the Agilent team has performed over the last quarter and throughout 2020. We have again proven our ability to work together and step up to meet any challenge that comes our way. During the quarter, all three of our business groups grew high single-digits on a reported basis. Our Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group generated $671 million in revenue, up 8% on a reported basis, and up 4% core. LSAG growth is broad-based. The cell analysis and mass spec businesses both grew at double-digit rates. In terms of end markets, chemical and energy returned to growth, food grew double-digits, and pharma high single-digits. LSAG remains extremely well-positioned and is outperforming the market. The Agilent CrossLab Group came in with revenues at $518 million. This is up a reported 9% and up 7% core. ACG's growth is also broad-based across end markets and geographies. Our focus on on-demand service is paying off as activities in our customer's labs continues to increase. The ACG team continues to build on it's already deep connections with our customers, helping them operate through the pandemic, and continue to drive improved efficiencies in lab operations. In the Diagnostics and Genomics Group, revenues were $294 million, up 9% reported, and up 7% core. Growth was broad-based, with NASD oligo manufacturing revenues up roughly 40%. The Genomics and pathology businesses continue to improve during the quarter. I'm also very proud of our NASD team for successfully ramping production at our new Frederick site this year. We have built a very strong position in this attractive market, with excellent long-term prospects for high growth. Let's now shift gears and look at our full-year fiscal 2020 results. Despite the disruption, uncertainty, and economic turmoil dealing with a global pandemic, the Agilent team delivered solid results. We generated $5.34 billion in revenue, up 3% on a reported basis, and up nearly 1% core. To put this in perspective, it's helpful to recall the progression of our growth. In Q1, we delivered 2% core growth, as you saw the first impact of COVID-19 in our business in China. Both Q2 and Q3 declined low single-digits as the pandemic spread across the globe and governments instituted broad shutdowns. With 6% core growth, 8% reported in Q4, we're seeing business and economies start to recover. As a result, we are clearly exiting 2020 with solid momentum. Our recurring types of businesses, represented by ACG and DGG prove resilient, growing low to mid single-digits for the year. In a very tough CapEx market, our LSAG instrument business declined only 2% for the year, and returned to growth in the final quarter. China led the way for our recovery with accelerating growth as the year progressed. In our end markets, pharma remained the most resilient, and food markets recovered most quickly. Full-year earnings per share grew 5% during fiscal 2020, to $3.28. The full-year operating margin of 23.5% is up 20 basis points over fiscal 2019. As we head into 2021 we do so with tremendous advantage. Our diverse industry-leading product portfolio has never been stronger. Our building and buying growth strategy, with the focus of high growth markets continues to deliver. Our ability to respond quickly to rapidly changing conditions is also serving us well. The way our sales and service teams have been able to quickly pivot to meet customer requirements during the pandemic has been nothing short of remarkable. You know, last year this time, I used this call to remind you of the Agilent shareholder value creation model. Our approach is focused on delivering above market growth, while expanding operating margin, along with a balanced deployment of capital. We prioritized the plan of our capital both internally and externally on additional growth. A few proof points on our growth-oriented capital deployment strategy. A year ago, we spoke about recently closing the BioTek acquisition and the promise of growth that BioTek represented. Today, BioTek is no longer a promise, but a driver of growth. In total, the cell analysis business generated more than $300 million in revenue for us during the year, with double-digit growth in Q4, and continued strong growth prospects. Similar to last year, I was talking about ramping up our new Frederick site facility, a $185 million capital investment. In addition to successfully ramping Frederick as we planned, we did so with an expanding book of business. We also recently announced additional $150 million investment to add future manufacturing capacity. We are aggressively adding capacity to capture future growth opportunities in this high-growth market. Even in the face of a pandemic, we stayed true to our build and buy strategy. We have clearly seen the advantages of our approach. I'm confident our strategy will continue to produce strong results for us. The strength of our team and resilience of our business model has served us well, and as you can see from the numbers, our growth strategy is producing outstanding results for our customers, employees, and shareholders. While uncertainty remains as we being fiscal 2021, we're operating from a position of strength. Because of this, we're cautiously optimistic about the future. We have built and will sustain our track record of delivering results, and working as a one Agilent team on behalf of our customers and shareholders. As I noted earlier, I couldn't be more pleased with the results the Agilent team delivered in the fourth quarter and throughout the year. Thank you for being on the call today, and I look forward to your questions.

Mahon: Thanks, Mike, and good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I'll provide some additional revenue detail, and take you through the fourth quarter income statement, and some other key financial metrics. I'll then finish up with our outlook for 2021, and the first quarter. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. We are very pleased with our fourth quarter results as we saw strong growth exceeding our expectations, especially considering the ongoing challenges associated with COVID-19. For the quarter, revenue was $1.48 billion, reflecting core revenue growth of 5.6%. Reported growth was stronger, at 8.5%, currency contributed 1.7%, while M&A added 1.2 points of growth. From an end market perspective, pharma, our largest market, showed strength across all regions, and delivered 12% growth in the quarter. Both small and large molecule businesses grew, with large molecule posting strong double-digit growth. We continue to invest and build capabilities in faster growth biopharma markets, and offer leading solutions across both small and large molecule applications. The food market also experienced double-digit growth during the quarter, positing a 16% increase in revenue. While our growth in food business was broad-based, China led the way. And as Mike noted earlier, our chemical and energy market exceeded our expectations growing 3% after two quarters of double-digit declines. Well, one quarter does not a trend make, we are certainly pleased with this result, and the growth came primarily from the chemical and materials segment. Diagnostics and clinical revenue grew 1% during Q4 led by recovery in the U.S. and Europe. We continue to see recovery in non-COVID '19 testing as expected, although the levels that are still slightly below pre-COVID levels. Academia and government was flat to last year, continuing the steady improvement in this market, and revenue in the environmental and forensics market declined mid single-digits against a strong comparison to last year. On a geographic basis, all regions returned to growth. China continues to lead our results with broad based growth across most end markets. For the quarter, China finished with 13% growth, and ended the full-year up 7% just a great result from our team in China. The Americas delivered a strong performance during the quarter, growing 5% with results driven by large pharma food and chemical and energy, and in Europe, we grew 2% as we saw lab activity improved sequentially benefiting from our on-demand service business in ACG, as well as from a rebound in pathology and genomics as elective procedures and screening started to resume. However, while improving CapEx demand still lags are servicing consumables business. Now turning to the rest of the P&L, fourth quarter gross margin was 55%. This was down 150 basis points year-over-year, primarily by a shift in revenue mix and an unfavorable impact of FX on margin. In terms of operating margin, our fourth quarter margin was 24.9%. This is down 20 basis points from Q4 of last year. As we made some incremental growth focused investments in marketing and R&D, which we expect to benefit us in the coming year. The quarter also capped off with full-year operating margin of 23.5%, an increase of 20 basis points over fiscal 2019. Now wrapping up the income statement, our non-GAAP EPS for the quarter came in at $0.98, up 10% versus last year. Our full-year earnings per share of $3.28 increased 5%. In addition, our operating cash flow continues to be strong. In Q4, we had operating cash flow of $377 million, but more than $60 million over last year, and in Q4, we continued our balanced capital approach to repurchasing $2.48 million shares for $250 million. For the year, we repurchased just over 5.2 million shares for $469 million, and ended the fiscal year in a strong financial position with $1.4 billion in cash and just under $2.4 billion in debt; all-in-all, a very good end to the year. Now let's move on to our outlook for the 2021 fiscal year. We and our customers have been dealing with COVID-19 for nearly a full-year and are seeing our end markets recover. Visibility into the business cadence is improving, and as a result, we're initiating guidance for 2021. There is still a greater than usual level of uncertainty in the marketplace across most regions and so while we're providing guidance, we're doing so with a wider range than we have provided historically. It is with this perspective that we're taking a positive, but prudent view of Q1 in the coming year. For the full-year, we're expecting revenue to range between $5.6 billion and $5.7 billion, representing reported growth of 5% to 7% in core growth of 4% to 6%. This range takes into account the steady macro environment we're seeing. It does not contemplate any business disruptions caused by extended shutdowns like we saw in the first half of this year. In addition, we're expecting all three of our businesses to grow led by DGG. We expect DDG to grow high single-digits with the continued contribution of NASD ramp and the recovery in cancer diagnostics. We believe ACG will return to its historical high single-digit growth, while LSAG is expected to grow low to mid single-digits. We expect operating margin expansion of 50 to 70 basis points for the year, as we absorbed the build-out costs of the second line and our Frederick Colorado NASD site, and then helping you build out your models, we're planning for a tax rate of 14.75%, which is based on current tax policies, and 309 million of fully diluted shares outstanding, and this includes only anti-dilutive share buybacks. All this translates to a fiscal year 2021 non-GAAP earnings per share expected to be between $3.57, and $3.67 per share, resulting in double-digit growth at the midpoint. Finally, we expect operating cash flow of approximately $1 billion to $1.05 billion and an increase in capital expenditures to $200 million, driven by our NASD expansion. We have also announced raising our dividend by 8%, continuing an important streak of dividend increases, providing another source of value to our shareholders. Now, let's finish with our first quarter guidance, but before we get into the specifics, some additional context. Many places around the world are currently seeing renewed spikes in COVID-19 that could cause some additional economic uncertainty, and while we're extremely pleased with the momentum we have built during Q4, we are taking a prudent approach to our outlook for Q1 because of the current situation with the pandemic. For Q1, we're expecting revenue to range from $1.42 billion to $1.43 billion, representing recorded growth of 4.5% to 5.5%, and core growth of 3.5% to 4.5% and first quarter 2021 non-GAAP earnings are expected to be in the range of $0.85 to $0.88 per share. Before opening the call for questions, I want to conclude by echoing Mike's comments about the amazing work the Agilent team performed during fiscal 2020. To be where we are now, after knowing where we stood in March, is truly remarkable. Add to this the strong momentum we saw in Q4, I truly believe we are well-positioned to accelerate our growth in fiscal 2021.

Kumar: That's helpful, Bob; and Mike, one bigger picture question for you. I think you mentioned NASD was up 40% in the quarter. Did that business accelerate NASD, and I'm curious, the longer-term opportunity here when you think about it, how -- can this end up being a $500 million product for Agilent as you look at four or five years out? I'm curious to know your thoughts, and Bob, I think you mentioned the 50 to 70 basis points of margin expansion inclusive of investments in Frederick facility. What do you think the impact was of those investments on the margins, or I guess what I'm asking is what should margin expansion have been without those investments?

Mullen: Hey, Bob -- thanks for the questions, Vijay. How about I take the first part, and then you can take the second part. So that's not out of the realm of reason, your first question in terms of the longer-term potential total revenue for Agilent. We kind of put a teaser out there earlier about our December analyst and investor day, so we'll talk a bit more about NASD when we meet, but as you know, we are really pleased with -- and we've talked about in the past in terms of getting to that exit rate of over $200 million business, and while our capacity in terms of the physical capacity is built, we're now just finishing up the first year of operations, so we're -- just like we did with our Boulder site continue to find ways to drive more productivity and efficiency out of that asset, and we just announced another expansion of another production line within that existing facility. So I hope what you're hearing is a very bullish tone, both in terms of the market growth but also our ability to get our -- more of our unfair share, if you will, to the capital share in a growing market.

Mahon: Yes, Vijay, this is Bob. Just to build on that, what Mike talked about, the beauty of that business is it continues to accelerate throughout the year, and that 40% -- that roughly 40% in Q4 was the highest it was all year, and that team has done just a fantastic job of scaling that business, and we're not done, and as Mike said, we're making incremental investments in building out that capacity, which we'll continue to make throughout the course of next year. That is probably about a 20 basis point headwind next year and in the operating margin just rough numbers there, Vijay, but extremely pleased with the work that that team has been able to do, and continuing to drive that growth, and so we feel very good about that business.

Mullen: Thanks, Ankur, and thank you to everyone for joining us today on our call. I'm very pleased to be on the call with you today. We are off to an excellent start to our fiscal year. The Agilent team delivered outstanding results in the first quarter. The momentum in our business continues. Revenues for the quarter are $1.55 billion. This is up 14% on a reported basis and 11% core, exceeding our mid-January revised expectations. Also, as expected, COVID-19 tailwinds added roughly 2.5 points to our overall growth. Operating margins are healthy, 25.5%. EPS of $1.06 is up 31% year-over-year. Overall, a very impressive start to 2021. Our growth is broad-based. All 3 of our business groups delivered double-digit growth. All regions grew, with the 2 largest leading the way. China grew 25%, and the Americas posted 13% growth. We continue to see strength in most of our end markets, led by pharma growing 20%. These results are a testament to our build and buy growth strategy and the Agilent team's relentless customer focus. Demand remains strong for the full breadth of our offerings. We have been gaining market share in key areas. We are clearly keeping our foot on the gas. Now, let's take a look at our performance by business group. The Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group generated $722 million in revenue, up 13% on a reported basis and up 11% core. LSAG's growth is broad-based across end markets and geographies. We are particularly pleased with our cell analysis business. Cell analysis grew in the high teens, led by BioTek, which grew 26%. Growth is also strong at liquid chromatography and mass spec product lines, with both growing in the teens. Overall, our LSAG business saw very strong demand as many customers utilized their end-of-year CapEx budgets and our market share gains continued. From an end market perspective, food and pharma led the way for LSAG. Continuing our biopharma investment focus, we introduced new updates to our MassHunter LC/MS software. This new software enables data integrity consisting important regulatory requirements for our biopharma customers. As we continue to build our digital lab, we introduced the Agilent 7850 ICP-MS System, which provides new smart digital tools to improve workflows. LSAG's broad and continually strengthening portfolio is well positioned and continues to outperform the industry. The Agilent CrossLab Group posted revenues of $532 million. This is up a reported 13% and up 10% core. ACG's growth is also broad-based across end markets and geographies. Growth is strong in both services and consumables. Our digital investments and scale are adding significant value. We continue to drive improved attach rates to Agilent's large installed base of instruments. Annual service contract renewal rates and growth were strong in the quarter as we continue to build a more resilient and higher growth business. The Diagnostic and Genomics Group, revenues are $294 million, up 18% reported and up 15% core. Growth is broad-based, led by our NASD oligo business. Our genomics product portfolio grew double-digit, aided by COVID-19-related qPCR demand. We also achieved strong growth in our core NGS sample prep business. As mentioned earlier, overall company growth is broad-based across most of our end markets. The pharmaceutical food businesses led the way, both growing strong double-digits. We also posted 10% growth in the environmental and forensics market. Chemical and energy grew 2%, and we've seen increased business activity in the C&E space. The academia end market is down 1%, with many university labs still operating in a constrained environment. We are also continuing our efforts in the battle against COVID-19. We have completed our development and clinical validation for a serology assay to detect COVID-19 antibodies. We plan to submit to the U.S. FDA for Emergency Use Authorization within the next month. In addition, we're making progress on our qPCR-based test for COVID-19 detection and plan to launch in Europe in the next couple of months and submit for Emergency Use Authorization in the U.S. within the same time frame. I'm also pleased to share that Barron's again recently named Agilent One of America's Most Sustainable Companies. This marks the third year in a row we have been included among the top 3 companies in this ranking. We've also been a leader in our industry all 4 years that Barron's list has been published. We're very proud of this honor. Sustainability is a key priority for our company. When I look back on the uncertainty we faced this time last year, I'm so proud of what the Agilent team accomplished, all-time high customer satisfaction ratings, building momentum in all our businesses and delivering excellent results. Our first quarter results are another compelling proof point that we’re building an even stronger company and market position during the pandemic. As we discussed at our December investor event, our diverse industry-leading product portfolio has never been stronger. Our building and buying growth strategy with a focus on high-growth markets continues to deliver. Our M&A funnel is robust and remains focused on growth-accretive M&A opportunities. We are targeting companies in markets where we see potential for significant long-term growth, and Agilent is in a strong position to win. As we look ahead, we have a sense of realistic optimism. We have solid momentum. We're winning in the market, and we have the right team to continue to succeed. As a result, we are raising our core growth guidance range to 6.5% to 8% for the year. As you may recall, we recently guided to a long-term core growth rate of between 5% and 7%, so we are certainly off to a good start in 2021, and we have no intention of slowing down. We have also raised our earnings guidance for the year. In December, I shared Agilent's long-range plan of margin expansion at 50 basis points to 100 basis points a year. We are now guiding towards the top end of that range for 2021. Bob will share more details on this in his remarks. I couldn't be more pleased with how we have started the year. We have momentum. Our team is strong and energized. We are gaining market share in key areas, and we have an even more promising outlook for the full year. Thanks for being on the call today, and I look forward to your questions. I will now hand the call off to Bob. Bob?

Mahon: Thanks, Mike, and good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I'll provide some additional details on Q1 revenue and take you through the first quarter income statement and some other key financial metrics. I'll then finish up with our outlook for 2021 and the second quarter. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. We are very pleased with our first quarter results as we saw strong broad-based growth exceeding our revised expectations. Revenue for the first quarter was $1.55 billion, reflecting reported growth of 14.1%. Core revenue growth was 11.3%, while currency contributed 2.8 points of growth. Now before I get into the end markets, Mike's earlier comments bear repeating. All 3 business groups delivered double-digit growth -- core growth in the quarter. Our superior value proposition continues to resonate with our customers and our team executed well, capitalizing on recovering demand in our end markets. Pharma, our largest market, was strong across all regions, delivering 20% growth. Growth was led by NASD, which experienced significant growth in the quarter, albeit against the easiest comp of the year. NASD contributed 4 points to the overall pharma growth rate. We continue to be very pleased about the ramp of the Frederick oligo facility, and the recently announced capacity expansion in Frederick is on track. Small molecule grew mid-teens, while biopharma, excluding NASD, delivered 20% growth driven in part by strong demand for LC and mass spec instrumentation. We saw strong year-end demand from pharma customers. We're also seeing increased business related to the characterization of oligo-based therapies and vaccines. The food market also experienced strong double-digit growth during the quarter, posting a 22% increase in revenue. Our business grew in all geographies driven by increased demand for food safety and quality testing. China is leading the way, driven by investments in both commercial and government entities. Environmental and forensics grew double-digits, coming in at 10% core growth. Broad regional growth reflected strong tech refresh or replacement demand from contract labs. Our diagnostics and clinical revenue grew 9% during the quarter and has benefited from growth in COVID-related applications, primarily in the Americas and Europe. Our pathology business grew slightly as non-COVID testing continues to improve but has not yet recovered to pre-pandemic levels globally. While our diagnostics and clinical end market in China is still small, it experienced strong growth due to improvements in non-COVID testing and the uptake of our clinical LC/MS. The chemical and energy end market continued the recovery we saw last quarter and grew 2% in Q1. We continue to see signs of increased business activity, particularly in specialty chemicals and engineered materials along with encouraging improvements in the macro environment. And while we are optimistic, we are not yet reflecting a change in our forecast for the rest of the year. And as expected, the academia and government market recovery has lagged the other end markets, down 1% year-on-year as research labs are still not operating at full capacity. We continue to expect a slow but steady recovery throughout 2021. On a geographic basis, all regions grew. China grew 25%, leading all geographies, led by the food and pharma markets. The Americas delivered a strong double-digit performance during the quarter with 13% growth, while Europe was up 6%, both also led by pharma and food. Now turning to the rest of the P&L. The first quarter gross margin was 55.8%, up 10 basis points year-on-year. Adjusting for the exchange rates, gross margins improved 50 basis points. Our operating margin for the first quarter came in at 25.5%. This is up an impressive 260 basis points from last year, driven by volume and spending discipline. And this result includes the impact of increased strategic investments we started last quarter. Our top-line growth, coupled with our operating leverage, helped deliver EPS of $1.06 per share, up 31% versus last year. Our tax rate was 14.75%, and our share count was shares, as expected. Now onto the cash flow and the balance sheet. Our operating cash flow continues to be very strong. In Q1, we had operating cash flow of $238 million, a 43% increase over last year after adjusting for last year's 1 year -- one-time tax payment. This performance shows the strength of our business model and provides financial flexibility going forward. We continued the balanced capital deployment strategy we highlighted at our Annual Investor Event in December. In the quarter, we invested $41 million in capital expenditures, paid out $59 million in dividends and repurchased 2.9 million shares for $344 million. And as we announced earlier today, our Board of Directors authorized a new $2 billion share repurchase program replacing the current program. We ended the quarter in a strong financial position with $1.3 billion in cash and $2.5 billion in debt. Now moving on to the outlook. We have had a strong start to the year. And while there are still uncertainties in front of us and the business environment remains fluid, we have solid momentum, and we see continued recovery in our end markets, albeit at different rates. And as a result, we're increasing our full year projections for both revenue and earnings per share. For revenue, we are increasing our full year to a range of $5.825 billion to $5.9 billion, up over $200 million at the midpoint and representing reported growth of 9% to 11% and core growth of 6.5% to 8%. This increase reflects strong Q1 results and some improvement in our outlook for the remainder of the year. The increased guide assumes stronger performance in most of our end markets. The academia market continues to track as expected in our initial plans. And while business activity in the chemical and energy has picked up, we have not yet included any improvement in that market in this updated outlook. In addition, we have not included any revenue associated with either the serology or qPCR COVID assay in the outlook. As Mike mentioned, we also feel very good about expanding our margins. During the Investor Event in December, we provided long-range plan of annual margin expansion in the range of 50 basis points to 100 basis points. Given the volatility in results during 2020, our margin expansion profile will vary each quarter. However, we feel confident about our full year margin expansion being towards the top end of that range while also investing for future growth. The higher sales and margin expansion coupled with maintaining our tax rate at 14.75% and a lower share count of roughly 307 million shares, increases our fiscal 2021 non-GAAP EPS to a range of $3.80 to $3.90 per share. This is growth of 16% to 19% for the year. Now for the second fiscal quarter, we're expecting revenue to range from $1.37 billion to $1.39 billion, representing reported growth of 11% to 12% and core growth of 7% to 9%. We expect second quarter 2021 non-GAAP earnings to be in the range of $0.78 to $0.80 per share, with growth of 10% to 13% as we approach the 1-year anniversary of the significant reduction in expenses in Q2 of last year. Now before opening the call for questions, I want to say I couldn't be more proud of the Agilent team in driving such strong performance. We have gotten off to a great start this year, and I'm personally very excited to know what this company is capable of moving forward. We have very strong momentum, the right approach that leads me believe that we're on a very solid path for

Peterson: Congratulation here on the preannouncement. On that note, Mike, actually, I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about what drove the delta to the preannouncement. And then importantly, on sustainability, it sounds like you're not really calling out any kind of pull forward here. Curious as we think about it, and particularly that biopharma strength and the mid-teens growth you’ve had in LC/MS, how are you thinking about the sustainability there?

Souda: That's great. And if I could also ask in terms of pharma in China, could you maybe just elaborate your positioning there? You had really strong growth here in terms of both small molecules and biomolecules as well. Maybe just if you could characterize that, is that biomarker growth largely coming from NASD? Is that what's driving that part of the component? And the small molecules, you had really strong growth, too, so maybe if you could parse that out.

Mullen: Yes. Specific to China, there's no NASD volume at all. It's zero in China. So that's purely on the -- on what we call the

Mahon: Yes. And I was going to say, Puneet, as we said in the call, our -- if you stripped out NASD, biopharma in total, so this would be our ACG and LSAG businesses together along with some contribution at DGG, grew 20%. And that was really broad-based across all regions. Actually, it was faster than that in China. But if you look across, they were all kind of neck and neck in terms of the performance across the regions.

Donnelly: All good. I appreciate that. And then maybe just one on the academic side. Obviously, that's been lingering a little bit on the soft side, not only for you guys, but for much of the industry. I guess, where do you think we are there in terms of whatever metrics you guys look at, whether it's customers in the labs or whatever it may be?

Mullen: Yes. Great question. So when we’re talking to our team and our customers, here's our view of it right now. We think about -- if you think about 30% of the research labs are fully operational now, we think about 60% are working at reduced capacity. We think about 10% are closed. And we really think it's going to be -- all this is really tied to ability to get the infection rates down, to get the vaccinations out. I think until that changes significantly, we're expecting kind of more of the same, I'd say, Bob, for the -- until we actually see a change in the overall…

Mahon: Yes, I think the real catalyst for us, Patrick, to Mike's point, is what's going to happen in the fall semester for classes?

Mullen: Absolutely. To Bob's point, as I spoke the other day to our global field team, and we were talking about embracing our new ways of working. And of course, a lot of people drove and love to be back on the road. But not everybody feels that way. And the customers certainly don't feel that way because we're much more responsive and attentive to their needs by using digital platforms, there is a place for face-to-face, but it has to be based on the customer need, not because we want to be in the road to be out there doing things in a very traditional way. So we're keenly aware of the question you posed, Paul, really challenged ourselves to make sure that we really continue forward with these new ways of working. And this allows us to put money into areas that really do matter to customers.

Mullen: Thanks, Ruben, and thanks to everyone for joining our call today. Before I get into the quarterly details, I want to start by recognizing our Agilent India team. Despite the challenging COVID-19 situation, our India team is working closely with our customers to do what we can to help in this time of extreme need. In addition, our Agilent India customer support, finance, and IT teams have worked tirelessly to help us close out the second quarter and keep us moving forward. I could not be more proud of how the team has worked together in true ‘One Agilent’ fashion. Our thoughts go out to the entire Agilent India team and their families during this difficult time. In Q2, the strong momentum in our business continues against the backdrop of a recovering market. The Agilent team delivered another outstanding quarter exceeding our expectations. Both revenue and earnings are up sharply versus a solid Q2 last year, when revenues and earnings per share were relatively flat. Our growth is broad-based across all business groups, markets, and geographies. We also expanded margins, driving faster earnings per share growth. Revenues for the quarter are $1.525 billion. This is up 23% on a reported basis and up 19% core. COVID-19 related revenues account for roughly 2% of overall revenues as expected and contributed about a point to our overall growth. Our revenue growth is not a one quarter or easy compare story, but one of sustained above market growth. For example, our Q2 revenues are up more than 17% core from two years ago. Q2 operating margins are 23.9%. This is up 150 basis points. EPS of $0.97 is up 37% year-over-year. Late in the quarter, we also welcomed the Resolution Bioscience team to Agilent, continuing our investments in high-growth markets and bringing outstanding talent into Agilent. Like our recent acquisitions in cell analysis, Resolution Bioscience is an example of our build and buy growth strategy in action. The Agilent story remains the same. It is a story of one team outpacing the market to deliver strong, broad based growth in an environment of a continuing market recovery. Moving on to our end-market highlights, we grew strongly in all markets. Our growth is led by 29% growth in pharma and 22% in food. We are seeing improving growth in the chemical and energy market with 14% growth. We also posted low teens growth in diagnostics and over 20% growth in academia and government. Lastly, environmental and forensics grew 8%. Bob will provide more end-market detail later in his comments. Geographically, the Americas led the way with 27% growth. Strength in China, Europe and the rest of Asia continues with all growing in the mid-teens. The 13% growth in China is on top of 4% growth last year when the business started to recover from the pandemic. As we look at our performance by business group, the Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group generated revenue of $674 million during the quarter. LSAG is up 28% on a reported basis and up 25% core, off a 7% decline last year. LSAG’s growth is broad-based, across all end-markets and geographies. Our focus and investments in fast growing end markets continues to pay off. The LSAG pharma business is very strong, growing 41% with strength in both biopharma and small molecule. From a product perspective, we saw strength in liquid chromatography and LCMS along with continued growth in cell analysis. During the quarter, cell analysis grew 34%, with our BioTek business growing close to 40%. During the quarter, the LSAG team also contributed to our long-term company-wide focus on sustainability in advancing important ESG initiatives. LSAG announced several new products that have earned the highly respected Accountability, Consistency, and Transparency, ACT Label from My Green Lab. My Green Lab is a non-profit organization dedicated to improving the sustainability of scientific research. LSAG products also received two Scientists' Choice Awards announced at the SelectScience Virtual Analytical Summit. In our cell analysis business during the quarter, we launched our Cytation 10 Confocal Imaging Reader, a multi-functional automated system focused on research labs and core facilities looking for increased productivity. This product builds on the BioTek cell imaging leadership with the Cytation multi-mode reader and expands our reach in this strategic business. While still early, customer feedback has been extremely positive. We are also very pleased with the progress and trajectory of our cell analysis business overall and see a very positive future for this space. The Agilent CrossLab Group posted revenues of $536 million. This is up a reported 19% and up 15% on a core basis versus a 1% increase last year. ACG’s growth is driven by demand for consumables and services across the portfolio as lab activity continues to increase for our customers. This is leading to more on-demand services and parts consumption. Revenues from our contract business continue to drive strong growth due to the high level of contract renewals seen in the previous quarter. Our strong instrument placements and the increasing installed base will benefit the ACG business going forward. At the same time, our digital investments continue to pay off with continued strong customer uptake in consumables and our digitally enabled service offerings. Our LSAG and ACG business has come together in the analytical lab. This is where we believe we are well-positioned to continue driving above market growth as we build on our market leading portfolio, strong service organization, and outstanding customer service. For the Diagnostics and Genomics Group, revenues were $315 million, up 20% reported and up 16% core versus a 5% increase last year. Growth is broad-based, led by our NASD oligo and genomics businesses. Demand for our NASD offerings remains strong and our capacity expansion plans for our high-growth NASD business remain on-track. We’re very pleased with our acquisition of Resolution Bioscience during the quarter. With their liquid biopsy technology, Resolution Bioscience is a key player in a very exciting area of cancer diagnostics. We are very glad to have them on the Agilent team. I’m confident that as time goes on, you will be hearing more and more from us on this business and its contributions. I would now like to recap the second quarter and take a look forward. The strong momentum in our business continues. This is being driven by our relentless customer focus, the strength of our portfolio and the execution capability of the One Agilent team. Our build and buy growth strategy is delivering, as intended, with above-market growth. Over the last year, I have often said that Agilent is focused on coming out of the pandemic even stronger as a company. I believe you’re seeing the impact of this approach in our current results. As we look ahead, we do so with a sense of both optimism and confidence. We are optimistic because of the continued market recovery and the strength of our portfolio. We are confident because we have the right team, customer focused, operationally excellent and driven to win. As a result, we are once again raising our full-year revenue and earnings guidance. Bob will share more details, but we are expecting a continuation of our excellent top line growth. We also expect to convert this strong top line into excellent earnings growth and cash generation. During our investor event in December, we discussed our shareholder value creation model and our goals for increasing long-term growth and expanding margins. Six months into fiscal 2021, we are well on our way to achieving those objectives. Our build and buy growth strategy is delivering. The One Agilent team continues to demonstrate its execution prowess and strong drive to win. We’ve raised the bar on customer service and continue to exceed customer expectations in providing industry-leading products and services. While we have yet to fully emerge from the global pandemic, we are looking forward to the future with both optimism and confidence. Thank you for being on the call today and I look forward to your questions. I will now hand the call off to Bob. Bob?

Mahon: Thanks Mike and good afternoon everyone. In my remarks today, I’ll provide some additional details on Q2 revenue and take you through the income statement and some other key financial metrics. I’ll then finish up with our updated outlook for 2021 and the third quarter. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. Revenue for the second quarter was $1.525 billion, reflecting reported growth of 23%. Core revenue growth was 19%, while currency contributed just under 4 points of growth. We are very pleased with our second quarter results as we saw strong, broad based growth with all three business groups posting mid-teens growth or higher, and all end markets growing strongly. From an end-market perspective, our focus on fast growing markets is paying off. Pharma, our largest market, again led the way, delivering 29% growth. This is on top of growing 5% last year. Growth was led by cell analysis, LC, and Mass Spec. These tools are delivering critical capabilities to our Bio-Pharma customers as they continue to make investments to develop new therapies and vaccines. Our biopharma business grew roughly 40% and represented over 35% of our pharma business in the quarter. Our small molecule segment also has momentum, growing in the mid-20s in the quarter. Overall, we are well-positioned within pharma and expect the pharma market to continue being the strongest end-market as we enter the second half of the year. The food market continued its strong performance, growing 22%. We experienced strong growth across all regions and segments as we continue to see global investments across the entire food supply-chain. We were very pleased to see the non-COVID diagnostics businesses continue to improve throughout the quarter growing 13% as routine doctor visits returned closer to pre-pandemic levels. We posted a very strong month in the diagnostics and clinical market as we came to anniversary the weak April we experienced in our large markets at the onset of the pandemic last year. And we exited the quarter with testing volumes at a run rate slightly higher than pre-pandemic levels. The chemical and energy end-market continues to recover as we grew 14% off a decline of 10% last year. Our results were primarily driven by continued strength in the chemicals and materials markets. And in a positive sign, our order growth rates were ahead of revenues and finished the quarter strong, leading us to believe this trend will continue. We also saw a nice recovery in the academia and government market as non-COVID-related labs resume operations in a strong funding environment. With the increase in activity, our business grew 21% against the weakest comparison of the year. We would expect the academia and government market to continue to recover throughout the rest of the year. Lastly, the environmental and forensics market saw high single-digit growth driven by the Americas, services and consumables, and atomic spectroscopy. On a geographic basis, all regions grew, led by the Americas at 27%. The pharma and academia and government markets in Americas grew in the low 30% range and all markets grew at least 20%. Europe experienced 16% growth led by food, academia, and government, and C&E. Those three markets all grew more than 20%. And as Mike noted, China grew 13% after growing 4% last year. This was driven by pharma growth in the high 30s. Our growth in orders outpaced revenue growth by mid-single digits during the quarter. Now turning to the rest of the P&L, second quarter gross margin was 55.4%, flat year-on-year despite a headwind of more than 30 basis points from currency. Our operating margin for the second quarter came in at 23.9%. Driven by volume, this is up a solid 150 basis points from last year even as we saw increased spending as activity ramped and we invest in the future. Strong top line growth coupled with our operating leverage helped deliver EPS of $0.97, up 37% versus last year. Our tax rate was 14.75% and share count was 307 million shares. Now, on to cash flow and the balance sheet. Our performance translated into very strong cash flows. We delivered $472 million in operating cash flow during the quarter, up more than 50% from last year. This strong cash flow has continued to help drive our balanced capital deployment strategy. During the quarter, we retuned $254 million to our shareholders, paying out $59 million in dividends, and repurchasing 1.55 million shares for $195 million. And as Mike mentioned, we also continue to strategically invest in the business. We spent a net of $547 million to purchase Resolution Bioscience and invested $31 million in capital expenditures. Year to-date, we’ve returned $657 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases, while re-investing in the business by spending $619 million on M&A and capital expenditures. We ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet, which enables us to enjoy financial flexibility going forward. During the quarter, we raised $850 million in long term debt at very favorable terms, redeemed $300 million that was maturing next year and reduced our ongoing interest expense. We ended the quarter with $1.4 billion in cash, $2.9 billion in outstanding debt and a net leverage ratio of 1X. Now, turning to the outlook for the full-year and the third quarter, we see great opportunity to build on our strong first half results. Looking forward, while the pandemic is still with us, we continue to see recovery in our end-markets and have solid momentum in all our businesses. As a result, we’re again increasing our full-year projections for both revenue and earnings per share. This reflects our strong Q2 results and increasing expectations for the second half of the year. We are also incorporating the Resolution Bioscience into our new guidance. For revenue, we are increasing our full-year to a range of $6.15 billion to $6.21 billion, up nearly $320 million at the midpoint and representing reported growth of 15% to 16% and core growth of 12% to 13%. Included is roughly 3 points of currency and about a half-point attributable to M&A. This increased outlook also reflects continued growth in our end-markets. We see sustained momentum in the second half of the year in the pharma, food, and environmental and forensic markets. End markets that we expect will continue to recover in the second half include diagnostics and clinical, academic and government, and C&E. As Mike mentioned during our investor event in December, we provided a long-range plan of annual margin expansion in the range of 50 basis points to 100 basis points. Our updated guidance for the year exceeds the top end of that range. In addition, we are increasing our fiscal 2021 non-GAAP EPS to a range of $4.09 to $4.14 per share. This is growth of 25% to 26% for the year. Now for the third fiscal quarter, we are expecting revenue to range from $1.51 million to $1.54 billion, representing reported growth of 20% to 22% and core growth of 15% to 17.5%. And we expect third quarter non-GAAP EPS to be in the range of $0.97 to $0.99 per share with growth of 24% to 27%. Now, before opening the call for questions, I want to say, we’re extremely pleased with how we’ve started the first half of the year. We believe our strategies and our execution are driving the strong results we’ve achieved and put us in a great position to continue to drive strong results for the remainder of the year.

Leonard: Okay. And Mike, I want to ask a follow-up on Resolution Bio, you kind of assume this a build the future positive updates to come there. Can you talk about your to invest in that business? And the reason I ask is, it does seem like a driver of success in that space is a willingness to absorb losses for long periods of time. So, can you talk about how you plan to invest in the business and how that fits your overall operating model?

Mullen: Yeah, I'm not sure I accept the premise that do you need to have huge operating losses to have the business depend on the type of play you're trying to make here. And Bob and Sam you guys, keep me honest here as well, but pharma services business model we have where we can leverage a lot of investments that we've already made around our IHC base CDx business, we're not in the same position increment there perhaps maybe start up some of it brand new entering the space. So, we have something to build from. So, I think our expense structure may look perhaps look different than others in this space. We do plan to invest aggressively on the R&D side as well, building out additional commercial relationships. But we think our plan has been to absorb within the overall operating model. So, there wasn't any asterisk when we put our long-term goals out and said well without Res Bio, so I think we believe that we can manage within our overall operating model and I think given where we're starting from, which is we're not starting from zero in this business. We have something to build from our acquisition, a number of years ago from Darko. I think that puts us in a different perhaps a different place.

Bruin: Hi, sorry, had the mute on, sorry about that. So, can you talk a little bit more about the LCMS growth and the service going on there. And a couple of questions on that one. First of all, I've asked this question about are you seeing an accelerated replacement cycle in that market or any of your markets. Basically, are people feeling good about budgets. You're spending a little bit more than they had so that general question. And I guess one of your competitors has been talking about new LC platforms, particularly targeting the biologics area. I'm just sort of wondering what your sort of competitive response and product offerings are that will going against that?

Raha: Yes, that's one where we are – if we think about the opportunities, we're very, very pleased with kind of the progression of that business recovery throughout the course of the year. If you recall last year, we actually grew in that business and then saw a strong fall off when the pandemic really hit and we're expecting accelerated growth in Q3, but this is an area where we're watching to say, is there going to be sustained – how fast is that sustained recovery going. But all signs right now are very positive from the standpoint of the recovery, not only in our business, but if you look at just the overall testing environment continues to be very positive on non-COVID testing. So, I think people are getting back into the doctors' for wellness tests, certainly diagnostic tests like cancer diagnostics and so forth, and I think we're seeing the benefit of that going forward. And then couple that with the addition of the Res Bio business and I think we've got a very compelling portfolio of opportunities to provide to our customers going forward.

Souda: Yes, hi. Thanks, Mike and Bob. Bob question for you first. What are you baking in for pricing expectations for the year? And I think the bigger question here is, your ability to take pricing in the market in case there is a rise in raw material prices and in-line with the expectations?

Mahon: That's a great question, Puneet, and what I would say is, first of all, just a shout out to our OFS team, our supply chain organization, who've just done a fantastic job of being able to manage the increased demands on a increasingly fragile supply chain or logistics, I would say. And so they've just done a fantastic job of supporting our customers. And as you say, we are starting to see inflationary pressures in these areas, but I would say, you know our contracts are more long-term in nature and the teams have been able to drive with the volume, as well as continued discussions, good cost controls there at least in the near term. And on pricing, our pricing hasn't changed. We felt that we had modest price built into our plan. That's what we've seen through this first half of the year and that's what we're assuming in the second half of the year. It depends on what group, but overall, we hadn't built any expectation of significant price increase or decreases into our business.

Souda: Okay, that's helpful. And then a quick one for Sam first and then other one for Jacob. Sam, if you could characterize what are your expectations with the pipeline in terms of MRD, beyond therapy management for Resolution Biosciences, and if you could also talk a little bit about the regulatory framework? In past you followed PDL1 pharmDx assays into FDA approvals. How should we think about the new product launches? Are they going to follow a similar path? And then for Jacob briefly, could you update us briefly on the Open Lab efforts and your position in pharma there, obviously with your competitor now being focused again on the – very much on the core LC position. I'm wondering if you're seeing any changes in the market and I totally appreciate your 1,100 and 1,200 LCs has done well, but I just want to get a sense of

Couillard: Got you. And then just one more, it doesn't sound like, based on your prepared remarks today, but to what extent if at all are you seeing any supply constraints, printed circuit boards or other marked materials?

Mullen: Brandon, I just would echo what Bob mentioned earlier, our office team that is on a spectacular job, so in our remarks you heard we talked about some strong orders, order growth higher in China and C&E, but that was not at all tied to any supply chain constraints. So, we've been able to get product. We've been able to ship product and listen, it's not easy, but the teams find a way to make it happen. So, I think Bob is relatively material at all to the quarter and we think it's manageable moving forward as well.

Donnelly: Great, thanks for taking the questions guys. Maybe following-up on Brandon's question on C&E there, can you just talk through what you're seeing in there a bit more? Obviously, the order book growth is encouraging coming in higher than revenue. You know, was that enough to give you confidence that this won't kind of turn quickly on you? I know you've noted historically it's been a bit hesitant to bake in too much growth there. I mean this is among the most positive I’ve heard from you guys over the past couple of years. So, can you just talk through that and then I guess was that segment the biggest piece guidance raise doing a bit more comfortable about the sustainability there?

Mullen: If you think about our – the combination of our LSAG and ACG businesses where we come in the analytical lab, as Jacob mentioned earlier and I haven't had a chance to have jump into the call yet, but you know they’ve been working very well together for multiple years. And you're seeing it by bringing innovative solutions to the market that have a differentiated value proposition from the competition. A superior service experience and I think it's – we continue to build out our commercial reach as well. So, I think it's been the combination of portfolio and the workflow focus within that portfolio, building the service capability and then building out further commercial reach. I think it's been a combination of all those factors helping us to do really well in our LSAG and ACG groups, and then obviously we talked earlier about the play in cell analysis, which is a new addition to the company in biopharma, and then our NASD play in Sam's business. I think it's been a combination of all those factors. So, that's why we keep using the word broad-based growth because you see it in all parts of the businesses. So, we feel really good about the results from the size we were working on for a while.

Mahon: Thanks, Mike. And good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I will provide some additional details on Q3 revenue, and take you through the income statement and some other key financial metrics. I'll then finish up with our updated outlook for the fourth quarter and the full year. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. As Mike mentioned, we had an excellent result in the Third Quarter. Revenue was 1.59 billion, reflecting reported growth of 26%. Core revenue growth was 21%. Currency added, 4.5% for the quarter, and M&A added 0.5. In addition, COVID-related revenues were in line with the prior year. All end markets performed well with Pharma and Chemical & Energy as standouts versus expectations. Our largest market Pharma, grew 27% during the quarter, after growing 2% last year. The performance was led by the continued strength in our large molecule business, growing 52%, while our Small Molecule business grew mid-teens. And all regions in the pharma market grew double-digits. Our Large Molecule business was driven by our NASD division and demand for LC and Mass Spec instrumentation and solutions. While our Small Molecule business was primarily driven by QA/QC refresh. Chemical & Energy also performed well this quarter, with 23% growth. Even after accounting for the comparison against the 10% decline last year, this was clearly our best quarter since the onset of the pandemic. This result was driven by increasing momentum and demand for advanced materials and the general global economic growth. Our view is that the Chemical and Energy market still has additional room to grow moving forward. The diagnostics and clinical, we're very encouraged with the continued recovery in the market as our genomics and pathology businesses saw very good growth. On a regional basis, all regions grew with China up 41% and America is delivering 38% growth. In academia, in the government market, we delivered 12% growth as most research labs continue to open globally and expand capacity. On a regional basis, Europe led the way. The Food market continued its double-digit performance, growing 12% on top of growing 1% last year. Food manufacturers continue to invest in increased testing to ensure quality and authenticity. A developing cannabis testing market, primarily in the U.S. also contributed to the growth in this market. And regionally, the food market was led by the Americas and Europe. Rounding out our key markets, environmental and forensics came in with 5% growth. On a geographic basis, all regions demonstrated solid growth led by the Americas at 32% and Europe at 23%, both exceeding our expectations. The performance was broad-based across all markets. And as expected, China was up 8% on top of 11% growth last year. All 3 business groups grew in China during the quarter. Pharma, Chemical & Energy, and Diagnostics were the key drivers. Now, turning to the rest of the P&L. Third Quarter gross margin was 55.9% up 80 basis points from a year ago, despite roughly 40 basis points of headwind from currency. Our strong top-line, some positive product mix, coupled with the strong execution from our operations team, drove the year-over-year improvement. And our supply chain team is doing a tremendous job getting our products to customers despite the increase in demand. Gross margin improvement in performance, along with continued operating expense leverage, resulted in operating margin for the third quarter of 26%, improving 230 basis points over last year. Putting it all together, we delivered EPS of $1.10 up 41% versus last year. Our tax rate was 14.75% and the share count was 306 million shares as expected. We delivered $334 million in operating cash flow during the quarter, showing a strong conversion from net income and up more than 15% from last year. During the quarter, we returned $172 million to our shareholders, paying out $59 million in dividends, and repurchasing roughly 800,000 shares for $113 million. Year-to-date, we've returned $829 million to shareholders in the forms of dividends and share repurchases, a leverage ratio of 0.8. Accounting for our Q3 performance and improved outlook in the fourth quarter, we are again raising our full-year projections for both revenue and earnings per share. We are increasing our full-year revenue projection to a range of 6.29 to 6.32 billion, up to $125 million at the midpoint from previous guidance. and representing reported growth of 17.8% to 18.4%. in core growth of 14.5% to 15%. Included is roughly three points of impact from currency and a small amount from M&A. In addition, we're on track to deliver, roughly $100 million in COVID-related revenue in fiscal 2021, in line with our expectations from the beginning of the year and flat to last year. We expect to continue our strong operating leverage, and so we are increasing our fiscal 2021 non-GAAP EPS to a range of $4.28 to $4.31 per share, up 30% to 31% for the year. This translates to fourth-quarter revenue ranging from 1.63 billion to 1.66 billion. This represents reported growth of 10% to 12%, and core growth of 8.5% to 10%, on top of the 6% growth in Q4 of last year, when we started to see early signs of recovery from the strict lockdowns. In addition, while COVID revenue was roughly flat year-on-year for the full year, last year's fiscal fourth quarter represented the high-water mark in our COVID-related revenue. And as a result, we expect to see roughly a 1-point headwind due to COVID revenue in the quarter. So, our core growth, excluding COVID, would be comparable to 9.5% to 11%. We are forecasting higher expenses in the fourth quarter as we invest to maintain our strong momentum, but expect continued operating leverage in excess of 100 basis points. non-GAAP EPS is expected to be between 1.15 and 1.18 with a growth of 17% to 20%. Now before opening the call for questions, I want to reiterate that we continue to see good demand in our end markets, have solid momentum in all our businesses, and expect to close the year extremely well. We believe our strategies are the right ones for Agilent, but we couldn't achieve these results, we without the excellent execution by the team.

Peterson: -- China outlook. I know in China, there's been a fair amount of noise about companies being able to do products in-country -- shutdown -- internal shutdown. So, can you maybe just talk to some of the near-term dynamics in China? And it sounds like trade tension's also getting worse with the buy China policy. How do you think about that over the next couple of quarters?

Mullen: Sure. Thanks for the congratulatory comments, Tycho, and we really, actually, continue to feel quite good about our performance in China, as Bob and I mentioned in the call script, I think 8% up on 11% last year, and I think our stack growth is around 19% Q2. It's actually up over our stack growth of 17 Q2. We're seeing this good, strong, Pharma and C&E demand in China. Now, the funnels really remain quite robust. And I think, now getting to your specific question, we're not seeing any significant changes in terms of ability to get the product in. I mean, there's been a lot of noise for years, I have to say, between the U.S and China, yet the business seems to somehow get transacted. So, Bob, I think we're not really overly concerned about those dynamics. We did have somewhat of a little bit of shipment interruption as some of our Academia government customers were – had our VAP tax exemption change. But I think that was a relatively minor impact on the P&L. But clearly, we're monitoring those developments and you have to continue to work to make sure you've got the logistics of flowing through the country, but we've always been able to find a way and are not overly concerned about it at this point.

Mahon: Yes. I would say, Tycho. We continue to invest in China as we mentioned in the call. And there are always bumps here and there, but long-term we feel very good about the business in

Mullen: Yes, that's having one other thought here, Tycho (ph.), is relative logistics. We have divested into a number of forward-looking stocking locations over the last few years, not really has paid us dividend, because we are less dependent on stuff coming directly into the port because we have a lot of in-country inventory.

Peterson: Okay. That's helpful. And then it sounds like you've got a lot of underlying momentum. I know you don't like to talk about the order book, but any preliminary comments you can make on '22 at this point, you know, Street has you are up about 6.5%, curious if you think that's a reasonable bar and any comments on where you think margins may go next year?

Mullen: Yeah. We'll address that in the Q1 call. But to your point, we've been pleasantly surprised, and it has continued to be stronger than what we've anticipated throughout the first 3 quarters, and what

Meehan: Thanks. Good afternoon. You talked about the job that your team is doing, managing the supply chain. Was wondering if you can elaborate on a hotspot you're seeing in terms of inputs, shipping, or labor. And when you look at the fourth-quarter guidance, is that -- are you taking any more prudent or conservative type approach based on what's going on in the supply chains?

Mullen: Yes, I mean, this has been a lot of discussion on that. I think everybody is talking about the supply chain constraints on a global basis. It's been a challenge for us, but as Bob noted in this call script, our team has just done a tremendous job getting the Agilent products to our customers. And we're really good at this about managing situations. So, we will work on a number of commodity areas for some time. And we also have done things as identifying a changing alternatives source, supply. So, we've been able to do that. We've had a last-minute changes notification from logistics suppliers that they won't pick up our boxes, and so we switched to another supplier. So, we've been able to manage our way through that. And it was conspicuous, it was absent in our cost script a lot of details because while we continue to monitor it, we don't believe that's a material risk to the Company at this time, and we still likely -- we factored all that into our guide for the fourth quarter. And Bob (ph.), I know that you've done a close study of this as well, anything else you'd add to that?

Mahon: Yeah. The only thing I would say is it's the usual suspects that other folks have called out, things like and our team has done, to date, an outstanding job of being able to continue to satisfy demand here. And our expectation is that that's going to continue to happen into Q4. And we've got a continuous improvement program that continues to drive productivity and efficiency gains. And we're expecting that, and to combat some of these inflationary pressures as well as continuing to deliver to our customers.

Souda: Thanks, Paul. And thanks, everyone. With that, we would like to wrap up the call for today.

Mullen: Thanks, Parmeet, and thanks everyone for joining our call today. The Agilent team delivered another excellent quarter to close out an outstanding, record-setting 2021. At $6.32 billion for fiscal 2021, revenues are almost $1 billion higher than last year. Full year, core growth is up 15% on top of growing 1% last year. The strength is broad-based with our three business units all growing more than 10% core for the year. Our full year operating margins are up 200 basis points. Earnings per share of $4.34 are up 32%. Let’s now take a closer look at our strong finish to 2021 and review Q4 results. Our momentum continues as orders increased faster than revenue in Q4 and at the same time, we delivered our fourth straight quarter of double-digit revenue growth. At $1.66 billion, revenues are up 12% on a reported basis. Our core revenues grew 11%, exceeding our expectations. This is on top of 6% core growth last year. Our Q4 operating margin is 26.5%. This is up 160 basis points from last year. EPS is $1.21, up 23% year-over-year. Our earnings growth also exceeded our expectations. We continue to perform extremely well in pharma, our largest market growing 21%, driven by our biopharma business. Total pharma now represents 36% of our overall revenue. This compares to 31% of our revenues just two years ago. The strong growth in our chemical and energy business continues, as we delivered 11% growth in the quarter. This is on top of growing 3% in Q4 of last year. PMI numbers are positive and we expect that chemical and energy will continue its strong growth trajectory into fiscal 2022. In diagnostics and clinical, revenues grew 11% on top of growing 1% last year, as testing volumes started to recover. On a geographic basis, our results were led by a strong performance in the Americas and China. Our business in the Americas grew 15% on top of 5% last year. China grew 8% core on top of strong 13% growth in Q4 of last year. China order growth outpaced revenue growth for the third quarter in a row. Now, looking at our performance by business unit, the Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group generated revenue of $747 million. LSAG is up 11% on both a reported and a core basis. LSAG’s growth was broad-based and led by strength in liquid chromatography and cell analysis. The pharma and chemical and energy markets were particularly strong for new instrument purchases. Our cell analysis business crossed the $100 million revenue mark in the quarter for the first time. During the quarter, the LSAG team announced a new Ion Mobility LC/Q-TOF and enhancements to our VWorks automation software suite. These new, well-received offerings are used to improve the analysis of proteins and peptides to speed development of new protein-based therapeutics. The Agilent CrossLab Group posted revenue of $572 million. This is up a reported 10% and 9% core. Growth is broad-based driven by strength in service contracts and on-demand services, as well as for chemistries and supplies. Our focus on increasing connect rates continues to pay off for us. The strong expansion of our installed base in 2021 and increasing connect rates bodes well for continued strength in our ACG business moving forward. Our ability to drive growth and leverage our scale produced operating margins of roughly 30%, up more than 200 basis points from the prior year. The Diagnostics and Genomics Group delivered revenue of $341 million, up 16% reported and up 13% core. Our NASD oligo business led the way with robust double-digit growth in the quarter and achieved full-year revenues exceeding $225 million. We expect another year of strong double-digit growth as the team continues to do a great job of increasing throughput with the existing capacity. The additional expansion of our “Train B” oligo manufacturing facility in Frederick, Colorado is proceeding as planned. We expect this additional capacity to come online by the end of calendar year2022. Moving on from our other business group updates, there were several other significant developments for Agilent this quarter. We announced our commitment to achieving net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. We believe our approach delivers the same rigor to sustainability that we apply to everything else we do. We also believe these actions are not only the right thing to do, but fundamental to achieving long-term success. Our sustainability leadership continues to be prominently recognized, as well. You may have seen that Investors’ Business Daily recently named Agilent to its Top 100 ESG Companies list. We are also a company where diversity and inclusion represent a company priority and is a core element of our culture. During the quarter, we achieved recognition by Forbes as one of the World’s Best Employers, and as a Best Workplace for Women. While the Agilent team has a strong track record of delivering above market growth and leading customer satisfaction, we are always looking to do more. To further accelerate growth and strengthen our focus on customers, we are implementing a new One Agilent Commercial organization, combining, for the first-time, all customer-facing activities under one leader. The new organization brings together and strengthens our sales, marketing, digital channel, and services team. The new enterprise-level commercial organization is led by Padraig McDonnell. Padraig will continue to lead the Agilent CrossLab Group as Business Group President, as well as serve as Agilent’s first-ever Chief Commercial Officer. The way I like to characterize this move is to say we are “doubling-down” on the success we’ve achieved with ACG applying a holistic, customer-focused approach to all aspects of our business. We are also moving the Chemistries and Supplies Division to LSAG. This closer organizational alignment between instrument and chemistries development will further accelerate our progress on instrument connect rates for chemistries and consumables. We believe that “structure follows strategy” and that this new organizational structure will further enhance our customer focus and the execution of our growth strategies. Looking ahead to the coming year, we are in a strong position to continue to deliver on our “build and buy” growth strategy. Agilent’s business remains strong. We enter the New Year with a robust backlog and have multiple growth drivers, coupled with the proven execution excellence of the Agilent team. A year ago, during our Agilent Investor Day, we raised our long-term annual growth outlook to the 5% to 7% range, while reaffirming our commitment to annual operating margin improvement and double-digit EPS growth. We are now one year in and well on our way to achieving these long-term goals. Bob will provide more details, but for fiscal 2022 our initial full-year guide calls for core growth in a range of 5.5% to 7%. We expect to continue our top-line growth as we launch market-leading products and services, invest in fast-growing businesses, and deliver outstanding customer service. My confidence in the unstoppable One Agilent team and our ability to execute and deliver remains firmly intact. This is our formula for delivering solid financial results, outstanding shareholder returns and continued strong growth. We are very pleased with our performance in 2021, but not satisfied.

Agilent team: The best is yet to come, for our customers, our team, and our shareholders. Thank you for being on the call today and I look forward to your questions. I will now hand the call off to Bob. Bob?

Mahon: Thanks Mike, and good afternoon everyone. In my remarks today, I will provide some additional details on revenue and take you through the income statement and some other key financial metrics. I’ll then finish up with our initial outlook for the upcoming year and for the first quarter. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. As Mike mentioned, we had very strong results in the fourth quarter. Revenue was $1.66 billion, reflecting reported growth of 12%. Before I get into the details, I want to acknowledge our supply chain team, which has been doing a great job managing in a very challenging global environment. Core revenue growth at 11% was a point above our top end guidance range. Currency accounted for 0.8% of growth, while M&A contributed 0.5% of growth during Q4. And as expected, COVID-19 related revenues were roughly flat sequentially and resulted in just over a point headwind to the quarterly core growth. Late in the quarter, we did see transit times that were in certain cases greater than anticipated resulting in some revenues being deferred into Q1. Our results were driven by a continuation of outstanding momentum in pharma, and in biopharma in particular, while chemical and energy and diagnostics and clinical also delivered strong results for us. Our largest market, pharma grew 21% during the quarter against a tough compare of 12% last year. The small molecule segment delivered mid-teens growth, while large molecule grew 31%. Pharma was a standout all year, growing 24% for the full year after growing 6% in 2020. And in FY22, we expect our pharma business to grow in the high-single digits. Chemical and energy continued to show strength, growing 11% with instrument growth in the mid-teens during the quarter. This impressive performance was against a 3% increase last year. The C&E business grew 12% for the year, after declining 3% in 2020. Growth was driven by continued momentum in chemicals and engineered materials and we expect our C&E business to continue to grow solidly next year in the high-single-digits. Diagnostics and clinical grew 11% with all three groups growing nicely during the quarter. While the largest dollar contributor to this market is DGG driven by our pathology-related businesses, the LSAG business continues to penetrate the clinical market and drive growth with strong performances by cell analysis and mass spec. We saw mid-teens growth in the Americas and strong growth in China, albeit off a small base. For the year, the diagnostics and clinical business grew 15% for the year after declining slightly by 1% in 2020. And we expect to continue to grow in the mid- to high-single-digits in 2022. Academia and government, which can be lumpy and represents less than 10% of our business was up 1% in Q4 versus a flat growth last year. Most research labs continue to remain open globally and increase capacity to pre-pandemic levels. China came in at low-single-digits, while the Americas and Europe were roughly flat. For the year, we grew 7% after declining 4% last year. We expect this market will continue to improve slightly in fiscal year 2022 and expect growth of low to mid-single-digits. Food was flat during the quarter against a very tough 16% compare. Europe and the Americas grew while China declined. For the year, food grew 13% after growing 7% in 2020. Looking forward, we expect food to return to historical growth rates in the low-single-digits. And rounding out the markets, environmental and forensics declined 2% in the fourth quarter, off a 5% decline last year, as growth in environmental was overshadowed by a decline in forensics. For the year, we grew 5% off a 2% decline in 2020. And looking forward, like food, we expect environmental and forensics to grow in the low-single-digits in the coming year. For Agilent overall, on a geographic basis, all regions again grew in Q4 led by the Americas at 15%. China grew 8%, and Europe grew 4%. And for the year, Americas led the way with 21% growth, followed by China at 13% and Europe at 12%. Now let’s turn to the rest of the P&L, fourth quarter gross margin was 55.9%, up 90 basis points from a year ago. Gross margin performance, along with continued operating expense leverage, resulted in an operating margin for the fourth quarter of 26.5%, improving 160 basis points over last year. Putting it all together, we delivered EPS of $1.21, up 23% versus last year. And during the quarter, we benefitted from some additional tax savings resulting in a quarterly tax rate of 13% and our full-year tax rate was 14.25%. Our share count was 305 million shares, as expected. And for the year, EPS came in at $4.34, an increase of 32% from 2020. We continued our strong cash flow generation, resulting in $441 million for the quarter, an increase of 17% versus last year. For all of 2021, we generated almost $1.5 billion in operating cash and invested $188 million in capital expenditures. During the quarter, we returned $195 million to our shareholders paying out $59 million in dividends and repurchasing roughly 830,000 shares for $136 million. And for the year, we returned over a $1 billion to shareholders in the forms of dividends and share repurchases. And we ended the year with $1.5 billion in cash and $2.7 billion in outstanding debt and a net leverage ratio of 0.7. All in all, a great end to an outstanding year. Now let’s move on to our outlook for the fiscal 2022. While we are still dealing with the pandemic and we have the additional challenges around logistics and inflationary pressures, we enter the year with strong backlog and momentum. For the full year, we are expecting revenue to range between $6.65 billion and $6.73 billion, representing reported growth of 5% to 6.5% and core growth of 5.5% to 7% consistent with our long range goals. And this incorporates absorbing roughly a half a point headwind associated with COVID-related revenues, with the majority of that impact coming in Q1. We are expecting all three of our businesses to grow, led by DGG. We expect DGG to grow high-single-digits with the continued contribution of NASD and cancer diagnostics. We expect ACG to grow at high-single-digits with both services and our chemistries and supplies businesses growing comparably, while LSAG is expected to grow in mid-single-digits. We expect operating margin expansion of 60 to 80 basis points for the year as we absorb the build out costs of Train B at our Frederick, Colorado NASD site. And in helping you build out your models, we are planning for a tax rate of 14.25%, consistent with current tax policies, and 305 million fully diluted shares outstanding. All this translates to a fiscal 2022 non-GAAP EPS expected to be between $4.76 to $4.86 per share resulting in double-digit growth. And finally, we expect operating cash flow of approximately $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion and capital expenditures of $300 million. This capital investment represents an increase over 2021 as we continue our focus on growth, bringing our NASD Train B expansion online and expanding consumables manufacturing capacity for our cell analysis and genomics businesses. We have also announced raising our dividend by 8% continuing an important streak of dividend increases and providing another source of value to our shareholders. Now, let’s move on to our first quarter guidance, but before I get into the specifics, some additional context. Lunar New Year is February 1st this year, a shift from last year when it was in mid-February. As a result, we expect some Q1 revenue to shift to the second quarter this year as customers shut down ahead of the holiday. In addition, as I mentioned, we do expect to see the largest impact of COVID-related revenue headwinds in the first quarter. We estimate these two factors will impact our base business growth by 2 to 3 points and are roughly equal in impact. For Q1, we are expecting revenue to range from $1.64 billion to $1.66 billion, representing reported and core growth of 5.9% to 7.2%. Adjusting for the timing of Lunar New Year and COVID-related headwinds, core growth would be roughly 8% to 10% in the quarter. First quarter 2022 non-GAAP earnings are expected to be in the range of $1.16 to $1.18. And a couple additional points before opening the call for questions. In conjunction with new One Agilent Commercial organization Mike talked about, we will be reporting under the new structure starting in Q1. In addition, we will be providing a recast of certain LSAG and ACG historical financials to account for the segment changes after the filing of our Annual Report on Form 10-K in December. I am extremely proud of what the Agilent team achieved in 2021 and look forward to another strong performance in 2022.

Kumar: Hey guys. Congrats on a nice print here and thanks for taking my question. Maybe as to my first one on…

Kumar: Mike, maybe my first one on the guidance here. A lot of questions around supply chain inflationary environment. The guide of 5.5% to 7% core growth for fiscal 2022, what is that assuming for pricing versus volume? And does it assume any contribution from interest run?

Mahon: Hey, Vijay, this is Bob. I did get the last part of your question, maybe. Yes, so, on the price, we do have built in roughly a point of price into our plan which is slightly higher than what we had this year, Vijay. And in terms of inclusion, we won’t get into individual customer products, but what

Mahon: Yes. Vijay, if we looked at our order backlog, we are taking orders for 2023 already.

Mullen: Yes. I have met Bob the other day, Vijay that a year ago we are talking about could we fill out the factory? Could it ramp and we’ve blown right through that.

Kumar: Yes. That’s fantastic, Mike. And just sorry to clarify post the complete response letter to Nord, there is no change in interest around assumptions for you guys, correct?

Mahon: Yes. Yes. Thanks, Derik. It’s a great question. And what we’ve been able to do even in this last quarter in the phase of inflationary pressures is be able to drive pretty significant margin expansion across our businesses. And so, as we think about the 60 to 80 basis points to put kind of as perspective, we are anticipating roughly 15 basis point headwind associated with that train B build up and that’s hiring the people and getting the product coming online and so forth. And so, if we think about that, that’s closer to 75 to close to that 100 basis points. A lot of that’s going to come through SG&A operating leverage and the activities associated with just not growing our business expenses as fast as the top-line. And we are going to be looking to cover some of the inflationary pressures on the top-line with that price that I talked about before which we didn’t really have any significant price in 2021. We have started to see that. We took quick action earlier this year to reflect that and so a combination of it. Most if it being in OpEx leverage, but there will be some small operating leverage at the top-line as well, if you take out the – excuse me, at the gross margin, if you take out the NASD expenses as a result of covering our cost through pricing increases.

Bruin: Thanks. And then just a couple of quick follow-ups. Any evidence of stocking transportation supply chains degree on the consumable side and just an update on ResBio, that looks like it so lagging its largest rotations?

Mullen: Hey, Derik, a follow-up on those two questions and so, and I have Sam coming on the second question. So, we’ve not seen any real evidence of stocking on the consumables. So, I think that’s pretty interesting, right, Bob?

Mullen: Yes. Yes. And then, what you are going to hear from Sam in a minute he will provide a little bit of color, we remain very, very bullish about the long-term prospects with ResBio and a lot of the work has been done to develop new opportunities with our pharma partners. But we are already on the short-term as well. Sam?

Raha: Yes. Hey. Thanks, Mike. In terms of Q4, whereas the revenue came in a little bit below expectations and that’s driven in part by COVID-19 related delays in clinical trial enrollment. Overall, the interest that we are seeing both from our existing customers on the pharma side that we’ve been doing I see work with, as well as new customers that’s very, very real. In fact, we’ve now signed an agreement which is our first with a large existing customer giving evidence to the interest that’s there in terms of the work that we are doing on the PMAs. These are approvals related to existing agreements with our Resolution Bioscience business. We are making good progress on that. And so, lot of the momentum in a number of areas. So, very pleased to have them as part of our business to really bring together the strategy we’ve had which is to be the companion diagnostic development and commercialization partner leveraging multiple modalities including immunohistochemistry and next-generation sequencing.

Leonard: So my first question relates to the 2022 guide. What are some of the factors that might pull performance back down to the mid-single digit range, specifically, something that would start with the five handle?

Mullen: Yes. I think, what I would say is, first of all, I think our guidance is prudent given the beginning of the year. If we saw continued, greater than expected disruptions in the supply chain that may impact demand, particularly in some of the applied markets that could do it. Although we haven’t seen that, to be very clear, Dan. We feel very good about where we are given our forecast and backlog. So we are – I would say are, we have bias towards the upside in our forecast as opposed to bias towards the downside.

Leonard: Appreciate that. And then, a follow-up on the shift in chemicals and supplies from ACG to LSAG. Is the logic behind the move is to increase the connect rate? Can you remind me where is the connect rate today and where you want it to be over some period of time?

Mullen: Yes. Sure, Patrick. So, yes, so we are seeing really good end market demand for and I think Bob highlighted a lot of those like the advanced materials or chemicals. It really speaks to the overall recovery economically on a global basis and the fact that this in particular, this customer base had deferred a lot of investments for some period of time. So, they are in a reinvestment mode and we have pretty good visibility to the funnel. So, I think we probably got at least a six month lead view on what’s coming down on instrument purchases. So, we are feeling really good about the C&E business as well as there is the ACG story here as well of where we are continuing to increase services in this segment, which has historically been more of a self-maintainer kind of market, as well as the chemistries and consumables side. So, I think we’ve got pretty good visibility, given our confidence and be able to put this kind of number out there in a full year guide at this point in time. Bob, anything else you’d add to that?

Waldman: Yes. Hey, Bob. Wanted to start with a quick follow-up on supply chain. I wondered if you could give us the magnitude of the push-outs you referenced and is this all LSAG?

Mullen: Well, I am going to pass it to Bob here in a second, but let me really clear in terms of our language. When I use supply chain, that means material constraints and then we have logistics. I think, of the issues that Bob, the transit times was really logistics issue. In terms of our ability to get product to customers and get the raw materials, we feel pretty good about what’s been going on there so.

Mahon: Yes, exactly. So it was more just longer delivery times and Josh, it was in the LSAG business, as you would expect.

Brennan: And maybe could you give a little color there. I think, Bob, you mentioned in the prepared remarks or in Q&A that you’re taking in orders to 2023. Could you just give us a sense like what the utilization is today of your capacity that’s available and any color about demand trends book of business things of that nature?

Mahon: Yes. In short, we are running 24/7 at both our Frederick facility, as well as our Boulder facility, which was a legacy facility. And we are – I feel very good about our ability to continue to expand capacity. What Brian and team have been able to do is increase both throughput, as well as yield. And so, that’s really helped us drive additional capacity with the existing footprint or the existing manufacturing facility. And the Train B, as we talked about has the opportunity to add more than $100 million of incremental volume coming online starting at the end of this - our fiscal - our calendar 2022.

Brennan: Got it. And then, maybe on the One Agilent, Mike, could you just give us, I know, Mike, when you got there, you made some changes to the sales force that have made under your predecessor, now you are going further. So how should we see this manifest from the outside over the next, I don’t know, one to two years? Does this – could this lead to stronger growth? Is it going to lead to more better margins, more durable growth? Just obviously the customers are going to see something, but how will that manifest in reported results, do you think?

Ahuja: Thanks, Bethany, and thanks, everyone. With that, we would like to wrap up the call for today.

Mullen: Thanks, Parmeet, and thanks everyone for joining our call today. Our momentum continues. The Agilent team delivered a strong start to 2022 in Q1, exceeding the expectation of both the top and bottomline. Our Q1 revenues are $1.67 billion. This is up 9% core and up 8% reported. This is on top of growing 11% core in Q1 a year ago. Excluding COVID-19-related revenues, our core growth is even better at 10% this quarter. We continue to see strength in our order book with robust order intake throughout the quarter. In fact, Q1 orders grew roughly twice as fast as revenues. Q1 operating margins are a healthy 26.3%, up 80 basis points from last year. Earnings per share of $1.21 are up 14%. The EPS increases versus a tough comparison of 31% growth in the first quarter of 2021. These strong results have been achieved in a very dynamic environment. I could not be more proud of the Agilent team’s ability to execute and deliver. Let’s take a closer look at some of what’s driving our strong results. Bob will go into more details later in the call, but our two largest markets continued strong double-digit growth. Our Pharma business, Agilent’s largest market, continues to lead the way for us, growing 17%. Global end market demand for our products and services remains very strong. Biopharma grew 32% while small molecule growth came in about at a robust 9%. The momentum in our Chemical and Energy business also continues, delivering 15% growth in the quarter. This was driven by mid-teens revenue increases in Chemicals and Advanced Materials. PMIs remain positive, along with our overall outlook in the Chemicals, Energy and Advanced Materials markets. On a geographic basis, our results led by 13% growth in the Americas. This is on top of 13% growth in Q1 a year ago. China grew 3% on top of 25% growth in Q1 of last year and was impacted by the timing of Lunar New Year, as noted in our November call. Demand in China remained strong as orders grew high-teens in the first quarter. We continue to invest in China for China to further strengthen our ability to serve our customers. We recently announced a $20 million expansion of our Shanghai manufacturing center to meet growing demand for our locally made liquor chromatography, spectroscopy and mass spec systems. Looking at our performance by business unit, the Life Science and Applied Markets Group generated revenue of $976 million, an increase of 7% on a core basis. This is versus a 10% core growth in Q1 of 2021. LSAG’s growth was led by strength in the Pharma and Chemical and Energy markets. From a platform perspective, customer interest and purchases of our chromatography systems and mass spec offerings are very robust. Our chemistries and supplies business, which moved over from ACG this year, continue to do very well, delivering double-digit growth. We also continue to invest and strategically partner for future growth. Late last week, we announced the acquisition of very exciting artificial intelligence technology that will be integrated into our industry-leading chromatography businesses. This technology has the potential to significantly improve lab growth productivity and accuracy by automating manual interpretational chromatography data. We believe that this capability will be very well received by the high throughput labs Agilent serves around the world. This acquisition is an example of our build and buy growth strategy, as a complement to work, our internal R&D teams are going to develop these types of capabilities for other Agilent platforms. During the quarter, we also announced a partnership with Lonza to integrate Agilent’s analytics technologies and techniques into Lonza’s Cocoon Platform cell therapy manufacturing workflow. The collaboration has the potential to transform the way personalized cell therapies are manufactured. In addition, to ensure we can meet the strong and growing demand for our cell analysis offerings, we also recently announced plans to invest more than $30 million for the construction of a new manufacturing site in Chicopee, Massachusetts. The Agilent CrossLab Group posted services revenue of $359 million. This is up 10% core against a 11% Q1 2021 core growth compare. This growth is broad-based with strength in service contracts, preventive maintenance, compliance, education and informatic enterprise services. Our focus on providing a differentiated customer experience that leverages our large-scale and talented customer support team continues to pay off. Our connect rates continue to improve and our installed base continues to expand, both boding well for continued strength in our services business. The Diagnostics and Genomics Group delivered revenue of $339 million, up 14% core versus Q1 2021 core growth of 15%. Our excellent growth is broad-based across pathology, genomics and NASD. Our Pathology business grew roughly 10% with strength across all regions. Our core genomics business grew low-teens, with strength in target enrichment and our genomics quality control product lines. The NASD team continues to deliver, driving 45% plus growth in the quarter. Meanwhile, the additional capacity expansion at our Frederick GMP oligo manufacturing facility continues to proceed as planned. We continue to expect this capacity to come on line by the end of calendar year 2022. Our Resolution Bioscience team achieved a major milestone in the first quarter by completing the pre-market approval submission for the Resolution ctDx FIRST liquid biopsy assay as a companion diagnostic. This was done in conjunction with Mirati Therapeutics for non-small cell lung cancer and is currently under review by the FDA. It is the first of what we hope will be several indications for liquid biopsy assays. I am pleased with how we have started the year. Building on our Q1 results, continued order strength and execution prowess, we are increasing our full year financial guidance. We are raising our core growth guidance to a range of 7% to 8%, up 125 basis points at the mid-point from our prior guidance. Fiscal year 2022 non-GAAP EPS guidance is increased to a range of $4.80 per share to 4.90 per share, growing 11% to 13% over last year. Bob will be providing the Q2 outlook along with more detail on our improved full year guidance. We are very pleased with our Q1 results and looking forward to another strong quarter and year ahead. I am also very confident in our team and our ability to execute and deliver for our customers and shareholders, no matter what the challenge. Thank you for being on the call today and I look forward to taking your questions later. However, for right now, I will now hand the call off to Bob. Bob?

Mahon: Thanks, Mike, and good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I will provide some additional details on revenue, take you through the income statement and some other key financial metrics. I will then finish up with our improved outlook for the full year and our guidance for the second quarter. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. As Mike described, we posted very strong results in Q1 and exceeded expectations. Revenue was $1.6 billion -- $1.67 billion, up a reported 8.1%. Core growth was even better at 8.9% as we overcame a greater than expected negative exchange rate impact of 1.3 points, while M&A added 0.5 point to growth. Q1 core growth was 170 basis points higher than the top end of our guidance. In addition, after adjusting for the 1-point headwind due to COVID-19 revenues, our core growth outside of COVID was roughly 10%, and as Mike said, order growth was even better. Again, a very strong start to the year. Now moving to our end-market performance, our results were driven by a continuation of strong growth in Pharma, led by Biopharma, while momentum in Chemical and Energy and strong results in Diagnostics and Clinical also led the way for us in Q1. Our largest market, Pharma grew 17% during the quarter, on top of 20% growth last year. The small molecule subsegment delivered high single-digit growth, while large molecule continued its strong performance growing 32%. We are seeing our ongoing investments in biopharma paying off as demand was strong throughout the quarter. We continue to believe in the long-term growth potential of the Pharma market and that our business will drive above market growth. Chemical and Energy continued to show strength, growing 15% during the quarter. Growth in Chemicals and Advanced Materials led the way, and we expect continued growth in this business. Diagnostics and Clinical grew 11% on top of 9% growth last year, with all three business groups again expanding revenues nicely during the quarter. Our expansion of LC/MS equipment into the clinical space continues to do well. And our growth in China was particularly strong, increasing more than 30% as we continue to penetrate this market. The academia and government market was flat in Q1. The business remained resilient despite omicron impacts in the U.S. as some universities delayed in-person learning in the period following the holiday break in December and reduced lab activity in January. We have seen lab activity improve into February and believe the funding environment remains positive. The Food segment declined low-single digits against a very strong 22% growth comparison from last year. The Americas were a bright spot for us, growing in the mid-teens, while Europe was flat and China down due to difficult comparisons and Lunar New Year timing. Closing out on the performance of the markets, environmental and forensics, our smallest market was down 11%. For Agilent overall on a geographic basis, all regions again grew in Q1, led by the Americas at 13% and Europe at 6%. China grew 3% on top of 25% in Q1 last year, in addition to the effect of Lunar New Year timing, which should benefit us in Q2. Now turning to the rest of the P&L, first quarter gross margin was 56.1%, up 30 basis points from a year ago. Our team has done a good job increasing productivity and pricing has helped offset higher input and logistics costs. Operating margins of 26.3% increased 80 basis points even as we have increased our R&D investments. Our investments in digital technology for our internal operations also continue to pay off as we leverage our infrastructure across the company using our One Agilent approach. Our tax rate of 14.25% came in as expected and we had 303 million diluted shares outstanding, slightly lower than projected. Putting it all together, we delivered EPS of $1.21, up 14% versus last year after growing 31% in Q1 of fiscal 2021. We continued to produce strong operating cash flow, generating $255 million in the quarter, beating our forecast, while we also invested $75 million in capital expenditures during Q1. And during the quarter, we took advantage of market volatility to repurchase $447 million worth of shares. We also paid out $63 million in dividends, returning a combined total of $510 million to shareholders. Our balance sheet remains very healthy with a net leverage ratio of 0.9 times and given current market conditions, we expect to continue to be aggressive in deploying capital. Now, let’s move on to our improved full year guidance and our outlook for the second quarter. As Mike indicated, we are raising our full year core revenue growth to an expected range of 7% to 8%, up from our initial guide in November of 5.5% to 7%. Excluding the COVID related 0.5-point headwind this year, this results in core growth of 7.5% to 8.5%. The new guidance takes into account our strong Q1 results and an improved outlook for the rest of the year on a core basis. While we have increased our core growth expectations, the dollar has strengthened considerably, doubling the estimated exchange rate headwinds from our initial guide to $110 million for the year, while the M&A impact remains relatively unchanged. Putting it all together, we are expecting full year revenues to be between $6.67 billion and $6.73 billion. In addition, we have increased our EPS guidance for the full year to $4.80 per share to $4.90 per share, up from the previous range of $4.76 per share to $4.86 per share and representing 11% to 13% growth versus fiscal year 2021. For Q2, we are expecting revenue to range from $1.595 billion to $1.625 billion. This represents core growth between 7% and 9% after adjusting for an expected 0.5-point impact related to COVID year-on-year and we expect reported growth in the range of 4.6% to 6.6%. Exchange rates are expected to have a negative impact of about 2.3% in the quarter while M&A is expected to contribute 0.3 points to growth. And closing out our Q2 guidance, non-GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $1.10 to $1.12, up 13% to 15% versus the prior year. This is based on a 14.25% tax rate and 303 million diluted shares outstanding. Again, the Agilent team performed extremely well in Q1 and with the solid growth we are seeing in orders and the team’s willingness and ability to take on every challenge that comes their way, I am confident that Q2 and our full year results will also be strong.

Vatnsdal: Great. Hi. This is Rachel on for Tycho. Thanks for taking the question. So, first off, great to hear the…

Mahon: Yeah. We are very excited about our portfolio and how it plays into that space and are believing that that strong growth will continue going forward.

Mahon: Yeah. I will jump in there. it -- yeah, the team has done a fantastic job really driving margin and if we look at it, it’s a combination of being able to cover our costs from the standpoint of the increased logistics and material costs, as well as very strong management discipline in the operating expenses. So it’s a combination of being successful in our price, which we had talked about before and covering those costs, as well as being able to leverage kind of our infrastructure across all three of the groups.

Mullen: And Bob, I think, you also called out the digital investments we are making. So that’s in particular showing up through the

Couillard: Thanks. Just one follow-up for Bob. Just if you could just elaborate a little bit more about the book-to-bill in the first quarter and then a couple just housekeeping, was the Lunar New Year impact kind of in line with the plan, and I think, last quarter you talked about…

Couillard: … $15 million of kind of delayed orders, were all those recouped in the first quarter, just kind of an update on that?

Mahon: Brandon, as usual, your notes are quite accurate and so let me address a couple of those things. So the Lunar New Year impact came in kind of as we anticipated, which should come back into Q2. That transit time or that $15 million that came in, but we haven’t seen really the improvement. So that’s still opportunities in the second half of this year. Our end of the quarter coincided with the large snowstorm in the U.S., but the shipments were out and we still were able to deliver.

Mahon: I knew that there was something else. I was trying to avoid that one on purpose, because we are not going to provide that. But what I can tell you is that, the growth rate of our orders was twice as much as the revenue growth, and I would say, our backlog is the highest it’s ever been.

Mullen: And Brandon, this is Mike. I would just add one comment. There is one word in my script. I really want to make sure that I emphasize here throughout the quarter. So this wasn’t just a calendar December year end kind of story. We saw this order strength throughout the entirety of our fiscal

Souda: Yes. Hi, Mike and Bob. Thanks for taking the question. So, the first one is just a follow-up on the order book. I am wondering if you can quantify that, obviously, that’s been growing strongly. And maybe just help us understand, once said, you have the strong order book, you have confidence in the rest of, I mean, the guide throughout the year based on what you are providing. But maybe just talk to us about the sort of the cadence wise in terms of supply chains. Obviously, we are hearing -- we have a number of questions that we get on supply chains frequently. So just wondering what’s your level of confidence on the supply chain and turning those order books into orders?

Mullen: Yeah. So, first of all, I’d say, that the supply chain environment continues to be quite challenging. On the other hand, I remain quite confident, because our team has found ways to continue to navigate through those and meeting the expectations of customers terms to delivery times. In fact, if I recall correctly, our order cancellation was actually lower this year than prior year. So while I don’t want to imply that it’s all sunny out there in terms of the supply chain, we have been working on this thing for a while. I mean many quarters ago, we were working on this quarter and the second half of this year. So while the environment remains challenged externally, I remain confident in our ability to actually get product to customers when they need it.

Mahon: Yeah. Puneet to your first question on the quantification, we are not going to provide that other than what I had answered…

Peterson: Just wanted to circle back on Pharma and just wanted to know if you had seen any benefit within Pharma from both onshoring activities and manufacturing redundancies and kind of, if so, where has this tailwind been and what are your expectations for any potential durability here?

Mullen: Great question. So I think this is actually a story both for the Pharma, as well as elements of our Chemical and Energy business. And I’d say right now, not yet material in terms of order book or revenue, but we believe it’s coming. There’s a lot of discussions with customers that are building new capacity. I would say it’s probably more of a 2023 kind of event. But I think it speaks to the durability of growth that we think we have in Agilent’s two largest end markets. So we are hearing lots of discussions about dual sources of critical components, onshoring of previously offshore critical supply chain elements. So I think the continued supply chain challenges that the world is seeing is only putting more emphasis on that direction. So I’d say right now, it’s in the longer term planning phase. As you know, the analytical laboratory instrumentation is often the last thing that’s added when they bring on new capacity, but we believe it’s coming, but it’s not been material yet to the company’s performance.

Peterson: Great. That’s super helpful. And maybe just to finish for me, just any updated thoughts on the One Agilent commercial organization transition? Anything that surprised you relative to expectations, sort of how is that incorporation gone internally?

Ahuja: Thanks, Emily, and thanks everyone for joining. With that, we would like to wrap up the call for today.

Mullen: Thanks Parmeet, and thanks to everyone for joining our call today. In Q2, the Agilent team again demonstrated the resilience and strength of our business model. We delivered core revenue growth in line with our forecast, expanded operating margins, and exceeded our EPS expectations. We did this while navigating a dynamic macro environment, including the conflict in Ukraine and COVID-related lockdowns in China. Our Q2 revenues are $1.61 billion. This is up 7% core and is on top of growing 19% in Q2 a year ago. Order performance was even stronger growing double digits on a core basis. Second quarter operating margins at 25.3% continued to expand, up 140 basis points from last year. Earnings per share of $1.13 are up 16%. We achieved these results despite the COVID-related lockdowns that closed our operations in Shanghai, starting in late March and continuing through the entire month of April. We estimate that this is roughly a 350-basis point headwind to our core revenue growth for the quarter. As Bob will indicate when he takes you through the details, this business is not lost and is expected to be recovered through the rest of the calendar year. Most importantly, our team in China is safe, and we restarted limited operations in May at our GC factory and logistics center in Shanghai. From an end-market perspective, the pharma and chemical and energy markets again led the way for us. Our pharma business, Agilent’s largest market, grew 13%, led by biopharma growing high 20s. This represents our seventh consecutive quarter of double-digit growth in the pharma market. It also builds on top of a stellar 29% growth rate last year. The momentum in our chemical and energy business also continued this quarter, delivering 9% growth in line with expectations and overcoming the shutdown of our primary GC production facility in Shanghai and the conflict in Ukraine. Growth was driven by advanced materials and chemicals. On a geographic basis, the Americas again led the way with 13% growth built on top of 27% growth a year ago. Europe also performed well with growth coming in at 7% following 16% growth last year. China revenues were on track with our expectations through March, but we exited the quarter down 3% given the COVID-related lockdowns. While revenues were affected by the temporary shutdowns in the quarter, overall demand in China remains very robust. In fact, China was the fastest growing region in Q2 from an order perspective, up about 20%. We remain very confident about the ongoing strength of our business in China. Looking at performance by business unit, the Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group generated revenue of $896 million, an increase of 4% on a core basis. Given our manufacturing footprint and relative strength in China, LSAG was disproportionately impacted by the COVID-related shutdowns there. To provide some additional perspective, all major product lines, excluding GC related products, grew solidly in the quarter, led by strong performance in our cell analysis business growing in the mid-teens. Orders for LC and LC/MS continued to be strong. Orders grew mid-20’s globally with particularly high adoption of our two new Bio-LC products. On the LC/MS front, we look forward to announcing several exciting new offerings at the upcoming ASMS conference that will expand our portfolio. Our value proposition continues to resonate with our customers and LSAG exited the quarter with record backlog. The Agilent CrossLab Group posted services revenues of $353 million. This is up 10% core. Growth in services was again broad-based across services contracts, preventive maintenance, compliance, education, and informatic enterprise services. The scale of our ACG business and breadth of portfolio continued to drive growth and margin expansion even in the face of inflationary pressures. Q2 marked the sixth straight quarter we’ve delivered growth across all markets and regions. The Diagnostics and Genomics Group delivered revenue of $358 million, up 15% core versus 16% last year. Our excellent growth was led by NASD and genomics. The NASD team delivered yet another strong quarter, generating record revenue and profitability. During the quarter, I had a chance to visit our team in Colorado and see first-hand the excellent progress that’s being made meeting current customer needs and also the work underway in continuing to build for future growth with our Train B expansion. We remain extremely bullish about NASD’s future and with Train B coming online in 2023, we’re adding yet another $150 million plus in capacity. Looking across the company, our One Agilent approach and focus on our customers has never been stronger. During the quarter, we were ranked number one in our industry and number two overall in customer satisfaction in The Management 250 ranking, developed by the Drucker Institute. In addition, the new Agilent Commercial organization is already resonating well and delivering successfully for our customers. Agilent’s Q2 results are yet another proof point for how we build a resilient company that can quickly adjust to a changing environment and still post strong results. Given our results to date, along with our backlog and continued order strength, we are again raising our full year core revenue growth and EPS guidance. For the year, we are now expecting 8% to 9% core revenue growth and EPS of $4.86 to $4.93. Bob will provide more detail on our Q3 outlook along with more information on what we expect for the rest of the year. After Bob’s comments and before we take your questions, I will be rejoining the call for some concluding remarks. Thank you for being on the call today, and now I will hand the call off to Bob. Bob?

Mahon: Thanks Mike, and good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I will provide some additional details on revenue and take you through the income statement and some other key financial metrics. I’ll then finish up with our guidance for the third quarter and the fiscal year. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. As Mike described, we posted solid topline results in Q2 while overcoming some difficult macro challenges in the business environment. Revenue was $1.61 billion, up a reported 5.4%. In the current quarter, currency was a headwind of 2.1 points while M&A added 20 basis points of growth. Core growth was up 7.3%, in line with expectations despite the COVID-related lockdowns in China, which primarily affected us in April. We estimate the lockdowns deferred $50 million to $55 million of revenue into future quarters, impacting growth in Q2 by roughly 350 basis points. In addition, COVID testing-related revenues were roughly a one-point headwind in the quarter. Our largest market, pharma, grew 13% during the quarter, on top of 29% growth last year. Biopharma continued to be the main driver of results, growing 27% year-on-year, led by NASD. Investments in R&D programs and demand for instrumentation, consumables and critical components remained strong. Pharma represented 37% of our overall revenues this quarter. To put that in perspective, in Q2 2019, effectively one year before the pandemic started, pharma represented just 30% of our business. This not only highlights the strength and resilience of this market, but it also demonstrates how our innovation and investments in higher growth markets continues to pay off. Chemical and energy continued its strong trend of positive results, growing 9% during the quarter despite the impact of the COVID-related lockdowns in China and the conflict in Ukraine. Results were led by strong double-digit growth in advanced materials and specialty chemicals. We expect strong demand to continue in these areas, particularly in semiconductors and battery and clean energy technologies as industry-wide capacity expands. Diagnostics and clinical grew 5% on top of 13% growth last year as year-on-year declines in COVID-related revenues and the temporary shutdowns in China muted our results. The academia and government market was a nice surprise for us, growing 5% in Q2 on top of 21% growth last year. We saw an increase in spending in this market as more university labs opened up and students returned to on-campus learning. In addition, sales activity and the funding environment continues to be healthy. In the food segment, we saw growth across all regions except for China due to the shutdowns. The higher concentration of food business in China drove the food segment to decline low single digits against a very strong comparison of 22% growth last year. And rounding out our end-markets, environmental and forensics grew 1% versus an 8% growth last year. On a geographic basis, the Americas grew 13%, Europe grew 7%, Asia, excluding China grew 8%, while China declined 3% in the quarter as the lockdowns affected our manufacturing and logistics operations for over a month. Regarding China, I’d like to provide some additional detail on how the quarter evolved and how we expect to see the recovery progress. First, as Mike said, demand remains strong with the order growth of about 20%, despite the temporary COVID lockdowns. Second, our business in China was tracking very well with our expectations through late March when production and our main logistics hub in Shanghai were shut down and remained closed throughout April. We were able to partially reduce the impact of the lockdown by shifting production to other factories where possible and adjusting the shipping routes into and out of China. We expect the $50 million to $55 million in revenue to be recovered throughout the rest of the calendar year, so it is deferred, not lost. In terms of phasing, we expect to continue to ramp our operations and anticipate modest recovery of the Q2 impact in Q3. We expect the majority of the recovery to occur in fiscal Q4 with some spillover into November and December, which is our first fiscal quarter of 2023. This phasing is baked into our updated guidance. Now turning to the P&L. The team continues to execute at a very high level. Second quarter gross margin was 55.7%, up 30 basis points from a year ago as pricing actions and productivity helped offset inflationary pressures tied to ongoing supply chain constraints and higher logistics costs. Operating expense leverage and strong cost management helped drive very healthy incremental improvements as we delivered an operating margin of 25.3%, up 140 basis points from last year. Our tax rate for the quarter was 50 basis points better than forecast, helping us deliver earnings per share of $1.13, up 16% versus last year, and exceeding our expectations. Looking at cash flow and our balance sheet, we generated operating cash flow of $283 million in the quarter while investing in $64 million in capital expenditures during Q2, with the year-on-year increase primarily related to the NASD expansion. Cash flow in the quarter was impacted by the transitory impact of COVID-related lockdowns in China as well as increased inventory to fulfill strong demand in a challenging supply chain and logistics environment, as expected. We are still on track to deliver our cash flow forecast for the year. During the quarter, we again took advantage of market volatility to repurchase $234 million worth of shares. We also paid out $63 million in dividends, returning a combined total of $297 million to shareholders. Our balance sheet continues to be healthy with a net leverage ratio of 0.9 times. And earlier this month, we refinanced $600 million in senior notes opportunistically, and now have no long-term debt maturing until 2025. As we stated last quarter, our approach given current market conditions is to continue to be aggressive in deploying our capital. Given our strong balance sheet and confidence in the future, we intend to deploy another $250 million in opportunistic share repurchases in Q3 while continuing to actively look at M&A opportunities. Now, let’s move to our improved full year guidance and our outlook for the third quarter. Given the strong business performance in the first half of the year and order backlog, we are raising our full year core revenue growth to an expected range of 8% to 9%, up a full point from our previous guide. This core revenue takes into account the recovery phasing in China, as well as a $35 million, or 55 basis-point headwind due to the conflict in Ukraine. While we’ve increased our core growth expectations, the dollar has again strengthened considerably since our last guide, resulting in estimated currency headwinds of $170 million for the year, up $60 million since our last guide. And the impact of M&A remains unchanged. This results in us maintaining our full year reported revenue guidance range of $6.67 billion to $6.73 billion for the full year. We have also increased our EPS guidance for the full year to $4.86 to $4.93 per share. This is up from the previous range of $4.80 to $4.90 per share, and now represents 12% to 14% growth versus fiscal year 2021. For Q3, we’re expecting revenue to range from $1.625 billion to $1.650 billion. This represents core growth between 7% and 9%. We expect operations in China to ramp and be fully operational before the end of the quarter and continue to accelerate into Q4. Given the strengthening of the dollar, exchange rates are expected to have a negative impact of about 4.7 points on the reported growth in the quarter. Closing out our guidance, in Q3 non-GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $1.20 to $1.22, up 9% to 11% versus the prior year. This is based on a 14% tax rate and 300 million diluted shares outstanding. The Agilent team once again performed extremely well in Q2 under some very challenging circumstances. At the same time, our business remains strong, and I’m confident we will continue to deliver strong results in Q3 and through the rest of the year. With that,

Mullen: Thanks Bob. Before we take your questions, I would like to share some thoughts with you on the current environment. As you know, we’re living in very dynamic times. However, our end markets remain strong. Our build and buy growth strategy is working. What is also very clear is the ability of the Agilent team to continue to deliver in a challenging external environment. We have built a resourceful, quick moving team and a resilient business model that has shown again-and-again, time-after-time, that we can successfully address any challenges or obstacles that come our way. We delivered inline growth, increased margins by 140 basis points and exceeded our EPS expectations during a time of rapidly growing inflation, continued supply chain challenges and the effects of a COVID-related lockdown in a key market. In times like this, our customers want to work with people and companies they can rely on. This works to our advantage, and I remain confident in our growth strategy continuing to deliver, and in the power of the unstoppable One Agilent team. Our growth drivers remain intact, and our business prospects remain strong now, and into the future. Thank you. And now, back to Parmeet as we take your questions. Parmeet?

Kumar: Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. Mike, certainly, you did mention this is an impressive performance given the relative fears on the Street on impact from China lockdowns. So, I guess, one, when you look at your peers, very strong instrument growth across LC and mass spec. Maybe could you talk about how did Agilent's portfolio within that instruments segment perform? What were the trends within the Q? Were there any lockdown impact for instruments and maybe order trends specific to instruments, please?

Mahon: Yes. And hey, Vijay, this is Bob. Just to kind of dimensionalize that impact when we talk about disproportionate, roughly 80 to 85% of the impact due to the

Kumar: That's helpful, Bob. And maybe one on the top -- lockdown impact in China. The guidance is assuming that $50 million to $75 million comes back in the second half. What gives you the confidence that this is coming back in second half? And where are we in China? Have the markets reopened? Like is your production facility up and running? Because I know you have a GC manufacturing facility, and there have been some questions on perhaps there could be an impact in

Mullen: Vijay, how would I lead off the response here? So -- and this ties into why we have confidence about the outlook. So, we are back up and running in Shanghai, albeit on limited capacity. Both our logistics and production facilities are now up to 25% operating capacity. And we've actually started some limited international and in-country shipments. So product is starting to move. And we expect to have -- our view is that the lockdown controls will start to ease over the coming weeks and that we'll be fully operational by the end of the quarter, but we don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves here, and that's why I think Bob will describe a fairly modest recovery assumption in Q2. I'd also like to take this opportunity to call just to do a shout out to our team in Shanghai, who are actually camped out, living at the factory and not being asked and volunteering to do that. So, I've also got confidence in the outlook because

Mahon: Yes. And to build on that point, Vijay, a couple of thoughts. I mean, we've watched the order backlog very closely. We haven't seen any cancellations associated with this. And as we're ramping up the factory in Shanghai, we also have dual manufacturing capabilities, and we continue to ramp up the factory here in the United States to be able to also provide GC and GC/MS. So, we are expecting, as Mike said, a very modest recovery of that $50 million to $55 million in Q3, the majority of it being in Q4 and then spilling over a little into November and December, but given the backlog and the fact that we haven't seen any of those orders cancelled, we feel like we definitely will get the product back. And if we go back to what happened in the initial phases of COVID, China dropped down pretty substantially and then came back fairly quickly, so.

Sykes: Congrats on a quarter in a tough environment. Maybe kind of following up on the instrument question, just dig a little bit more into C&E. Another good quarter there. And a couple of things you called out in terms of advanced materials, battery, semis. I mean, I think traditionally this has been looked at as sort of a highly cyclical sector, but when you're seeing sort of the secular growth drivers within those subsegments, it just seems less cyclical. Could you maybe kind of help us size that sort of cyclicality versus non-cyclicality within C&E? And what could be actually far more durable from an instrument growth standpoint in that segment over the course of this year and into next year?

Mullen: So, I'm going to lead off with this and then tag team again with Jacob and Bob. But we completely agree with the premise of your question. In fact, you may recall some of our earlier presentations where we talked about there's elements of the C&E segment that aren't fully appreciated. They're being driven by capacity expansion for supply chain concerns, move to new materials, investments in semiconductor batteries. All you have to do is see what's happening in the whole automobile industry. We're a part of that. And I think it's important to just remind the audience here of the three segments that we have. And advanced materials grew, I think, mid-20s for us. The chemical side grew high teens. We were down in the energy segment. And I think that's been historically the more cyclical element of the business. But I think you need to keep in mind that that's less than 3% -- and energy side, less than 3% of Agilent's total revenues. And perhaps I'll pass it over to you, Bob and Jacob, to -- some commentary on the relative size of those buckets, if you will.

Thaysen: Yes. I can also mention that Agilent has actually historically been very strong in material science. So, we have a very strong market presence both in the semicon industry, especially with our IC-PMS portfolio, but also with the GC, and generally speaking, in materials, in batteries and other renewable energy with our GC business. So I think we see a great potential in that. Bob?

Sykes: Great. Thanks very much. I appreciate the color. And then just secondly, on the pricing side. Bob, you mentioned that some of the offsets on the gross margin pressure coming from pricing. Can you just kind of remind us of what your expectations are for pricing this year? And then, in terms of some of the actions you did last year, how quickly are you realizing some of those higher prices that you put in place?

Mahon: Yes. It's a really good question. And we continue to be pleased by the ability for our value proposition to be recognized in the marketplace and actually having higher price than what we had initially had at the beginning of the year. If you recall, we had talked about roughly a 1-point year-on-year price realization. Q1, we were ahead of that. In Q2, we actually accelerated beyond that. And I would say most of the pricing that we're realizing today were for actions that we took most in the fall of last year and just starting to see some of the actions that we took in January of this year just given the strength of our backlog. So, it was above that. I would say in our new guide that we actually feel more optimistic about being able to be higher than that 1%. It was higher than that, certainly in Q2, which we needed because we -- our costs have been higher as well in terms of being able to have higher logistics costs given the price of oil and the cost of shipping. But we feel very good about our ability to continue to manage that across our entire portfolio.

Mullen: Bob, I think it's also very well. We feel really pleased about the net price realization that's occurred. We also continue to drive productivity as well. So, it's a combination of pricing and productivity improvements we're having across the

Couillard: Got you. That's helpful. And then, the DGG gross margin at 56% are quite strong. Is that a mix dynamic or pricing? And should we think about mid-50s as sustainable for this business going forward now?

Mahon: Yes. I think we certainly benefited from an extremely strong performance there. And Sam and team have continued to drive productivity in the business there. We did benefit from mix, but it -- I wouldn't necessarily put that number in for Q3 and Q4 because if you recall, one of the things that we are starting to do in the second half of the year is ramp up the start-up costs for Train B in our NASD facility and so forth. So -- and that hits our gross margin. But obviously, that has a great payoff in '23 with that $150 million-plus capacity. So, I would say the team had a benefit of mix. They're working on that productivity and activities. But I would say in the second half of the year, we probably will see some pressure because of some of that start-up costs.

Raha: Bob, it's -- completely agree with everything you said. So, it is mix, it is volume. By the way, just also affirm we benefited from price. We have some leadership positions in the market, which we are absolutely able to go after. And continued good performance expected, though. As you said, the expectation is going to be a little tougher with

Mahon: Yes. I think, Puneet, just to build on what Mike was talking about, if you go back to our first quarter results, we had January in our first quarter, and that was just coming off of Omicron -- the wave of Omicron. And we were talking about seeing increased activity starting in February as -- late in January, early February as kids were going back to school. We saw that continue throughout the course of our second quarter and really across the board. So, I think, it's pretty broad-based, particularly in our cell analysis business was one of the -- probably the strongest in that area and saw a really nice recovery after that first wave of Omicron there. And I think it continues to speak to kind of the value proposition that we have in cell analysis.

Bruin: Hey. It's Derik. Thanks for taking the questions. Just sort of follow-up on some things Puneet asked. So, we've been getting a lot of questions from investors basically asking if what the instrumentation sector is seeing is sort of like a pull-forward of the budget flush earlier in the year because customers are worried about delays in products, supply chains or anything like this. I mean, are you seeing any sort of like unusual order patterns? Or anything that's still suggesting it could be still catch-up orders from 2022 that didn't get -- sorry, for 2021 that didn't get shipped this year? Just like to because the instrumentation numbers have been just so strong across the group.

Mullen: No. We haven't seen any indication of that. And I think the supply chain challenges, if you will, are no better, no worse. So, there's nothing that would be -- from a supply chain standpoint that would be encouraging customers. I got to get my order book now or I won't get a product. So we're not seeing that. We do think that some of the markets have seen an increase in their overall inherent long-term growth rate, particularly pharma, biopharma. We actually think some of the COVID challenges we had that I mentioned earlier have actually led to a more positive funding environment in some aspects of our marketplace.

Mahon: Yes. I think from the standpoint of order growth, from a budget perspective, it only counts if they actually get the product, right? And so, if you look at -- the order growth continues to grow faster than revenue, which says, hey, from our standpoint, there's not necessarily pull-forward and it's just robust demand.

Mullen: So I'm going to make a few opening comments here. Then Bob has been doing a nice little set of model here. He has a few slides to reference, so he can give an even more precise answer. But I must use the word resiliency or resilient in my script comments at least 5 or 10 times because -- really to drive the point home that the Agilent business model, business portfolio, is significantly different than the last time that we've seen some type of recessionary pressure on the business. And at this point, for example, to a service business that just posted another 10% core revenue growth where I've got over 10% of my total company revenues under a service contract, whole consumables business, our NASD business, what we've been doing to really change the nature of our business and also deeper penetration in markets such as pharma, biopharma, which tend not to be as affected by a recessionary pressure if that was to occur. And Bob, I know this is something you're a keen student of, and

Mahon: Yes. Thanks, Mike, and you're telling all my secrets with my secret pages here. But I think, Patrick, to your point, this is something -- as Mike was talking about, the portfolio really has dramatically changed. So, if you went back to probably '08, '09, the great financial crisis, our business was much more capital-intense, much more instrument-oriented than it is today. It was probably in the mid-30s in terms of services and consumables. And today, it's closer to 60%. And then, if you also look at it, the pharma and clinical businesses, which are probably more recession-resistant, they're now 50% -- greater than 50% of the entire company. And so, back then, we were pretty close to GDP. And if you just look at what happened in COVID 2020, one of the greatest shocks we had, actually, we still grew 1%. And so, you can see that we've got a much more resilient business model because of the higher concentration, not only in faster and more resilient markets like diagnostics and the pharma business. But then when you look at the types of products that we have, the greater element of services, a lot of them on contract, as Mike just talked about, but then the consumables piece and then the consumables and services a greater proportion of the business than we had before. And then, even in some of those areas that we talked about, the more -- we're traditionally viewed as cyclical, there's some longer-term growth drivers. I think that people are going to still transition from gas-powered cars to electrical cars. There's still going to be a regionalization of investments and capacity around semiconductors and so forth to bring them closer to the markets, whether that be here in the U.S., Europe and other places to diversify that supply chain. Those are things that weren't there in 2020 -- or in 2008-2009. So I think we've got some tailwinds from a market perspective, and the business composition looks very different.

Vatnsdal: So, another question around biopharma. Biotech funding slowdowns have obviously been an area of concern. So, could you just talk about if you've seen any slowdown from customers related to funding concerns at all? And then, have you had any concern amongst challenging therapy customers? Or is that business really operating as expected as well?

Waldman: I think one for you, Mike, and then one for Bob. Mike, just want to expand on the instrument backlog questions. I mean, curious if you could provide a bit more context on the backlog strength. Just trying to get a sense on how much of this is a reflection of stronger orders versus potentially a function of tighter supply, maybe even the China GC facility shutdown in fact. You talked on biopharma strength. Are you seeing order -- instrument orders from more cyclical accounts like applied and industrial also run ahead of expectations?

Mullen: Yes. I think the story -- the headline story here is transitory impact on backlog build for an element of a COVID-19 lockdowns in China. But the big story -- the big macro story is orders continue to outpace revenue, so strong instrument demand across our two largest markets. And I can recall some of the questions we got earlier this year about, hey, what's the upside in your plan. We said, we think it sits in our two largest markets, pharma and C&E. And that's actually what's happening. So -- and I think we've probably got a little bit larger backlog build right now in C&E just because of the need to be able to deliver GCs from our Shanghai factory, albeit we were able to shift some of our production to our site in the U.S., and that's continuing to ramp. But again, I think the macro story here is really strong overall market environment for orders. And we're feeling really good about our ability to meet our customers' expectations on deliveries. We see customers continue to be satisfied with their relationship with Agilent. I think you saw me try to hit that in my closing comments. And then as Bob mentioned, we monitor very closely the level of order cancellations and continue to be delighted with where that stands.

Mahon: Yes. Hey Josh, this is Bob to kind of build on that. If we kind of peeled the onion back and looked at the backlog for LSAG, it's significantly above where it was last year. It's hard to peel out. There have been some longer delivery times because of logistics, but I would say the majority of it is demand-driven. It is not because it's longer delivery times. I mean, even if you took the $50 million to $55 million out -- yes. Even if you took the $50 million to $55 million out, it's still significantly higher than what it would be historically. It's a record backlog even if you take the kind of the onetime $50 million to $55 million

Waldman: Okay. And then, Bob, can you bridge us to the new EPS outlook? I mean you beat Q2 guide by $0.01 at the high-end raise, the full year by $0.03. Just curious how strong organic growth and other variables like share repo,

Mahon: I'll take the first one, yes. So I think if we look at what we have been able to do in Q2, it was very strong growth. it is slightly better than flattish as we've kind of tapped out -- as we're maxed out right now in capacity. But as you point out, the team continues to do a fantastic job to bring out new capacity. I will say that we do have a shutdown -- a planned shutdown in Q3 as we're doing some of the installation of Train B, which will temporarily depress the revenue there. That's built into the guide. And so, there may be a slight sequential downturn, but that's all part of the overall plan.

Mullen: And Jack, as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, we had a chance -- actually, Bob and I and Sam had a chance to actually go down and spend time with the team to see firsthand does a great job there to thank them for their work. And they've really done a great job both winning new business as we looked into '23 but also meeting -- also supporting a major expansion of our production, which we've been referring to as Train B. And to answer your question, I would say is, first of all, there's no changes to our outlook in terms of 2023 revenue. We do think it's not likely that we'll start production this calendar year. So, it's most likely early calendar 2023. We've had some great support from the construction teams are supporting our effort here, but also have experienced some COVID-related to supply chain issues. But as you can imagine, Jack, we also were prudent in our initial outlook for 2023. So, don't read into that anything beyond the fact that it may take us a little bit longer to get the plant up and running, the new capacity up and running, but our revenue outlook for 2023 remains unchanged.

Meehan: Super. And Mike, you said prudent now a couple of times but was just wondering, could you confirm, is the best still yet to come?

Ahuja: Thanks, Selena. And thanks, everyone, for joining. With that, we would like to wrap up the call for today.

Mullen: Thanks, Parmeet and thanks everyone for joining our call today. In the third quarter, we once again demonstrated the strength of our diversified business and the unstoppable One Agilent team. We delivered an excellent quarter, significantly exceeding our revenue and earnings expectations. Revenues of $1.72 billion are up 13% core. This is on top of 21% core growth in Q3 of 2021. Third quarter operating margin of 27.5%. Operating margins continue to expand and are up 150 basis points from last year. Earnings per share of $1.34, up 22%. Our strong results in Q3, coupled with orders continuing to outpace revenues, highlight the ongoing strength of our diversified business. The momentum in our business continues, and we once again raised our outlook for the year. Let’s take a closer look at our Q3 results. From an end-market perspective, our results were once again led by strength in our two largest markets, pharma and chemical energy. Our largest market, pharma, grew 16% versus 27% a year ago. Within pharma, both the biopharma and small molecule segments grew double-digits. The momentum in our C&E market segment continues with Q3 growth of 22%. This is on top of 23% growth a year ago. The C&E market is being fueled by demand in chemicals, along with strong secular demand and ongoing investment within the advanced materials space. We are also very pleased to achieve double-digit growth in the food and environmental and forensic markets with both markets growing 11%. In our last call, I shared our belief that the business impact of the Shanghai COVID-19 lockdown would be transitory. I also expressed that we remain confident about the ongoing strength of our business in China. In Q3, the China delivered 29% growth. These stellar results were driven by continued strong end-market demand, coupled with the faster-than-expected recovery of production and shipment activity following the end of the Shanghai area lockdown. We are also very pleased with its results, which highlights the customer focus, drive and outstanding execution of the Agilent China team. Strength in Americas continued as we posted another quarter of double-digit growth on top of 32% growth last year. Our European business grew 6% against 23% last year despite a 2 point headwind for the curtailment of our operations in Russia. In terms of business unit performance, the Life Science and Applied revenues of $1.02 billion, up 18% on a core basis. Growth was broad-based but continued strong demand for our LC and LC/MS offerings, where we posted high 20s growth. Our spectroscopy business grew low 30s driven by strength in the advanced materials market. Chemistries and consumables, cell analysis and our GC business each delivered double-digit growth in the quarter. LSAG’s end-market growth is broad-based with particular strength in the pharma and chemical and energy markets. Our pharma results were driven by strength in the biopharma segment, which grew more than 20%. We had an excellent showing at the recent ASMS conference, introducing several important LC/MS and GC/MS instruments and biopharma workflow solutions. These innovative and intelligent LC/MS and GC/MS systems have been designed to make the lives of our customers easier. To build an instrument intelligence and a higher level instrument diagnostics helped maximize system uptime and improve lab productivity by allowing operators to focus on their analysis rather than their instruments. In addition, we introduced an industry-first hydro in net source for GC single-quad and GC Triple-Quad instruments, enabling customers to seamlessly migrate from helium as a supplier gas to lower-cost hydrogen. And rounding out the list of new products announced at ASMS, we introduced the mass Hunter BioConfirm 12.0 software, an integrated compliant workflow, targeted at the fast growing oligo-based therapy development market. These new products have already been well received by customers and represent the latest addition to Agilent history of leadership in mass spectrometry. Our LSAG business also won some important awards during the quarter, including the 6560c i-Mobility LCT system, winning the Scientist Choice Award for Best New Spectroscopy product. Earlier this month, we also strengthened and broadened our advanced materials and biopharma portfolio with the acquisition of PSS, Polymer Standard Service, a leader in polymer characterization. We are extremely pleased to welcome the PSS team and their technology to the Agilent family. The Agilent CrossLab Group posted services revenue of $359 million. This is up 10% core. We grew 10% core even as lab activity continues to ramp in China. Growth in services was again broad-based across services contracts, preventive maintenance, compliance, education and informatic enterprise services. Strong instrument placements and increased connect rates continue to be a driver for our service business as customers continue to see value in our ACG offerings. Another critical important factor on our results is the scale and execution capability of Agilent’s world-class global service delivery organization in service of customers to meet their needs. Agilent was seen as the trusted company to work with among our global customers. The Diagnostic and Genomics Group delivered revenue of $340 million, up 3% core. This is diverse compare a 37% growth last year. The solid results in our clinical cancer testing and NGS businesses were partially offset by COVID testing headwinds in a Q PCR portfolio. In addition, the DGG business in China continues to ramp from the COVID-related shutdowns there. NASD revenues were up modestly in line with expectations. As we noted last quarter, Q3 included the impact of a planned shutdown, our oligo manufacturing line in Frederick, Colorado. The shutdown of Frederick was for both routine maintenance and development of key elements of our Train B. Our new manufacturing line have increased our capacity $150 million plus when fully ramped. While we continue to make good progress in the construction of Train B, we have seen some supply chain-related delays and are now targeted a midyear 2023 go-live, a slight delay. We see continued strong demand for oligo-based therapies as the number of approved drugs continues to increase and the pipeline of drugs in development are targeting disease states with larger patient populations. We are more confident than ever in the long-term trajectory of the market and our business. In addition to these highlights, I’d like to also point the recent release of Agilent’s 2021 ESG report. While we’ve always published our progress in sustainability and addressing societal needs, this year, we’ve taken our approach to the next level. We address these issues a new format that for the first time that looks specifically at our progress in the areas of environmental, social and governance issues. We hope you have a chance to review our progress in ESG by checking out the report on the Agilent website, learning more about how we’re executing our mission to advance the quality of life. Agilent’s Q3 results again point to the strength of our diversified business and the outstanding execution ability of the Agilent team. We continue to bring innovative, differentiated new offerings in the marketplace. Acceleration in digital orders growth continues as well as new customer acquisition. In addition, as we started 2022, we undertook a bold move to create One Agilent commercial organization to further drive customer focus and growth. The strength in our portfolio and the continued strong execution by our One Agilent commercial organization make a powerful combination, and you see it in the results we’re delivering. Customer satisfaction hit another all-time high this quarter. We continue to outgrow the market. As a result of our strong Q3 performance and continued momentum, we’re once again raising our full year revenue and EPS guidance. Bob will share more of the specifics. It’s an exciting time at Agilent with the best yet to come. Thank you for being on the call today. And now I will hand the call off to Bob. Bob?

Mahon: Thanks Mike and good afternoon everyone. In my remarks today, I will provide some additional details on revenue in the quarter and take you through the income statement and other key financial metrics. I will then finish up with our guidance for the fourth quarter and fiscal year. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. We are extremely pleased with our Q3 performance. Results were above expectations, and we expect that strength to continue in the fourth quarter. Q3 revenues were $1.72 billion, up 8.4% on a reported basis and up 13.2% core. FX was a 4 point headwind to growth or $76 million. Pricing for the quarter contributed over 3 points of growth year-on-year and improved sequentially. The performance was broad-based as all end markets and regions grew during the quarter. As we mentioned last quarter, the COVID-related lockdowns in China deferred an estimated $50 million to $55 million in revenue from Q2, and we forecasted that revenue would be recovered during the rest of the calendar year. Our team in China did a fantastic job ramping production and shipments faster than expected following the shutdowns. We estimate over half of that deferred total was delivered in Q3, exceeding our expectations. Given the strong performance, we now expect the remainder will be delivered in Q4, which is an acceleration from our thinking from last quarter. The acceleration of the COVID-related shutdown recovery in China contributed to an already strong Q3 for the company. For perspective, we estimate the total business grew double digits, excluding the accelerated recovery. As Mike mentioned, earnings per share of $1.34 were up 22% from a year ago, representing strong incremental flow-through of the better-than-expected revenue growth. This performance is against our most difficult comparison of the year as EPS grew 41% in Q3 of last year. Now let me dive a little deeper into the end markets. Our largest market, pharma, was up 16%, exceeding our expectations. Biopharma grew 18% and small molecule was up 14%. Biopharma is a focus area for us and now represents 38% of our overall pharma business. We expect that ratio to continue to climb over time. In addition, all 3 business groups grew double digits in the pharma segment. And our LC portfolio continues to perform very well, growing 25% in this important market for us. Chemical and energy continued to show strength, growing 22% during the quarter, driven by the chemicals and advanced materials segment of this market. We saw strength in plastics and packaging for chemicals and ongoing demand in advanced materials coming from the markets for semiconductors and batteries. In the food segment, we achieved growth of 11% on top of 12% growth a year ago. Strength in the food market was led by the Americas and China. Our environmental and forensics market also grew 11% during the quarter, driven by the Americas and China. In the Americas, we saw increased funding to support PFAS testing, while China experienced faster-than-expected recovery post the Shanghai shutdowns for GC and GC/MS. The academia and government market grew 5% on top of a 12% comparison last year, in line with expectations. And rounding out the review of our end markets, our business in the diagnostics and clinical market grew 2% against a very strong 28% compare versus last year. While not material at the Agilent level, this market did experience some headwinds associated with COVID-related revenues being lower than last year. Excluding this, the growth would have been mid-single digits in this quarter. On a geographic basis, China led the way with 29% growth driven by underlying demand and a faster-than-expected recovery following the COVID-related lockdowns. And looking forward, demand in China continues to be very strong. The Americas grew 11%, another strong showing, and Europe grew 6%, which exceeded expectations. Now turning to the rest of the P&L. Our team continues to execute at a very high level. Third quarter gross margin was 56.4%, up 50 basis points from a year ago as pricing actions, volume and productivity helped to offset inflationary pressures tied to ongoing supply chain challenges and higher logistics costs. Operating expense leverage, driven by the strong top line and continued attention to cost management, helped to deliver very healthy margin improvements. Our operating margin was 27.5%, up 150 basis points from last year. Below the line, our tax rate was 14% for the quarter as expected, and we had 299 million diluted shares outstanding. Looking at cash flow and our balance sheet. We generated operating cash flow of $326 million in the quarter while investing $82 million in capital expenditures during Q3, driven by our NASD expansion. During the quarter, we also repurchased $323 million worth of shares. We paid out $62 million in dividends in Q3, returning a combined total of $385 million to shareholders in the quarter. Year-to-date, we have purchased over $1 billion of shares. Given the ongoing strength of the business, we believe this is a very good investment. Our balance sheet continues to remain healthy with a net leverage ratio of 1. Now let’s move to our outlook for the full year and the fourth quarter. We now expect revenues for the full year to be in the range of $6.75 billion to $6.775 billion. This takes into account our Q3 results and an improved outlook in Q4, partially offset by an additional $40 million headwind associated with the strengthening of the dollar. This represents core revenue growth of between 9.9% and 10.3%. We are also raising our EPS guidance for the year to a range of $5.06 to $5.08, representing 17% growth year-on-year. This translates to Q4 revenue in the range of $1.75 billion to $1.775 billion. Core growth is expected to be in the range of 10.3% to 11.8%, while exchange rates will be a 5-point headwind, and M&A will contribute 0.1 points. In closing out our Q4 guidance, non-GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $1.38 to $1.40, up 14% to 16% versus the prior year. This is based on a 14% tax rate and 299 million diluted shares outstanding. The Agilent team once again performed extremely well in Q3, delivering strong results, driving excellent execution and building a strong foundation for the future. Our diversified business and most importantly, our team have put us in an excellent position to again deliver strong results in Q4. And now back to Parmeet, as we take your questions. Parmeet?

Sykes: Maybe just starting on LSAG, where you had a really good quarter, just interested to know, one, what drove the operating margin expansion in the quarter relative to your expectations last year? And then specifically, I know it was broad-based strength across instrument categories, but was there one or two areas that really surprised you to the upside where you feel is either underappreciated or could see continued momentum in the back half of the calendar year?

Mahon: Yes. And I think, Brandon, on your core incrementals, I mean, I think that if you look at historically, that’s where we have been. Obviously, we do have some startup costs in ‘23 for NASD and we will spell those out when we get to the numbers. But I don’t think that there is going to be anything fundamentally different on an incremental basis going forward.

Couillard: Okay. That’s helpful. And then on the NASD Train B line, Mike, you said it was pushed out a little bit in terms of the launch timeline. Is that like 1 or 2 months? I thought the plan was already mid next year. And could you elaborate a little more specifically on kind of where the supply chain issues exactly what those are that are kind of pushing the delay?

Mullen: I think you got the right timeframe in there, which is a month or two. It’s really been sort of specialized steel that’s required. So, I actually had a chance to see it myself, where you go into a room or you are – the steel pipe fitters are working and they are getting the area ready. They can’t close things off, because they are missing one valve or something. So we have had bits and pieces that have been missing that actually caused us certain delays. I mean, the team has been all over. I think the global supply chains are pretty well publicized, but we thought it was – we thought we should in the spirit of transparency let you know we are still on track for revenue coming out of the facility in ‘23, but maybe a month or two later than you thought initially.

Mahon: Yes. And I think, Brandon, there is one more important piece. I think based on what we know today, we still expect to be at capacity at the exit of FY ‘23 as well in terms of the ramp up.

Mullen: Sure, Vijay. And again, we are very, very pleased with the print. So thanks for the feedback. And Bob, we didn’t use it in our script, but

Mahon: That’s right. Yes. I think, Vijay, if you think about kind of the moving pieces within China, what we did was we pulled forward some of the revenue that was deferred into Q3, but we also pulled Q1 revenue into Q4. So, Q4, I would say we didn’t have a material change one way or another. We actually feel very good that we are going to realize that full $50 million to $55 million here in the fiscal year versus having it bleed a little into Q1. And as Mike said, I mean we are not out of the woods, certainly in supply chain challenges and COVID situations. And so we thought at this point in time, a double-digit core growth is very good but also prudent, as

Kumar: I love that word prudent. Maybe one on some of the moving parts for ‘23, Mike and I am not asking for a guidance, but if I look at pricing contribution, I think we started the year at 100 basis points. We are running at 300 basis points. I think that pricing should continue until it annualizes until mid of next year. You did mention orders coming in about revenues. What is the backlog conversion? Is that a 3-month or a 6-month or a 12-month visibility that you have from backlog, any impact from NASD? And sorry, on C&E very strong, but obviously, with the macro, should we perhaps be prudent for ‘23?

Vatnsdal: The first up on China – thank you, Mike. Yes. Great to hear that some of that catch-up in China was pulled forward there. And then you also pointed to double-digit growth in the region for that ex acceleration recovery. So first off, can you just walk us through specifically what drove that pull-forward on the catch-up from lockdown? And are you seeing an acceleration of demand catch up in China? And then second, how are you thinking about that longer-term growth within China because that we source of upside for the year?

Mullen: Great. So I’ll start, Bob, here. So I’d have to say it was an extraordinary effort of our team in China. I mean people sacrificed and worked tremendously hard. We had people coming into our factories and living at the factories. They slept and worked at the factories for the entire period of when before you couldn’t really get out beyond – back to your local community. So they did that for several weeks both in our logistics operations as well as our factories. And that allowed us to get our global GC production going as well as the import/export of our products as well. So I have to say it really was extraordinary effort of the team that made that happen. And we’re very optimistic about our ability to continue to grow well in China. In Q2, I think we talked about a greater than 20% order rate. We posted a number of 29% growth in Q3. Yes, we still built backlog in the third quarter in China. So I think we’re well positioned for the fourth quarter. And Bob, I said that probably does represent a level of upside potentially with things continuing to develop as we hope. The wildcards from my perspective are how much money could come into the segment from government stimulus. I know they’re talking about some of the things we haven’t seen any specifics. So that would be something that would be there on a positive. But again, our demand really is coming from the core private sector, commercial sector around pharma and

Mahon: Yes. Exactly, Mike. I think you mentioned Q2 kind of order growth rate, and Q3 was in that same range. And so we’re seeing very strong demand and been able to do a fantastic job of ramping up that capacity, and we expect that to continue into

Ryskin: Hi, guys. You sort of indicated that price continues to sort of grow as you go through the year. Is that a factor of the timing of when orders are converted to revenues and when you’re recognizing those revenues? So it’s just more of a dynamic of that? Or is this an incremental price increase that you’re building in as you go through the year? And just alongside that, any comments you could take in terms of reception to price? Any pushback or any particular areas where are you able to take more versus last? Just sort of give us an update on the pricing dynamic as you go through the year.

Mahon: Yes. Hi, Mike, this is Bob. I’ll take that ear. It’s the former. And so when we take price, it takes some time to get through the backlog. And so we’re seeing the price realization from the orders that – the price increase that we took back in the beginning of the calendar year. And really, what we’re trying to do is cover our costs. And we’re seeing increased logistics costs and increased material costs. And so we’ve taken it across the board, but also recognizing where the costs are higher, we’ve taken those prices up higher. We haven’t really heard any pushback, I think, as evidenced by our strong order growth. And then also we look very closely at cancellations or – within our order book, and that continues to be very low. And so I think our customers understand why we’re having to raise prices because of the inflationary environment. And I think to date, we’ve been able to actually generate more price than

Ryskin: Okay. Great. And then a follow-up. You’ve commented on the balance sheet that you’re getting the leverage lower and lower. I’ve done a couple of deals here and there in the past couple of years with the defended to be on the much smaller side. So could you talk about your willingness to lever up a little bit to put a little bit more of that capital to work? And if so, what are the types of assets you’re looking for? Sort of are sellers willing to engage in this market? Or is the – how are things proceeding on that front – on the BD front?

Mahon: Yes. I think we’ve been public about being willing to take on bigger deals than what we have had historically. I think we’re still – we have the benefit of having a very strong balance sheet. We’re going to first invest in our business. We think that that’s the greatest opportunity, but we’re always out on the lookout for M&A. And as you said – I would say the pipeline continues to be healthy. The dynamic has certainly changed in the last 9 months, particularly on the public market side, and I think there’s some good assets out there. It’s probably taken a little longer on the private market side, which is where we tend to focus our efforts. But I can tell you that we have – the beauty of our model is that we have organic growth first and M&A as kind of an adder on top of that. And so it is something that we’re continuing to look at and would be not uncomfortable levering up a little higher than where we are today for the right deal and if the economics work.

Mahon: I’m not – that’s pretty rich. But I think it all depends on what the right asset and what it looks like.

Waldman: Thanks for taking my questions. Just two for you guys. First, Mike, wondered if you could provide more context on the supply chain situation, how supply and cost to track versus your expectations over the last 90 days. Have you seen any relief on supply? And then it sounds like you built backlog in Q3. Curious whether your fourth quarter guide assumes any work-down in the backlog given recent order rates?

Mullen: Yes. So I’ll let Bob handle the second question, and I’ll start with the first one. So supply chain challenges are still out there, but our team continues to do an excellent job navigating them, getting the material that we need for our customers. We continue to have very, very low order cancellation rates is something we watch like a hawk. And I think we’re managing the price changes. So I think in the early days of things, we were kind of surprised at what things would cost on the market for chips and others, but I think we’ve now found ways to work that and then offset that with some of the pricing actions that we mentioned earlier. So I think if anything, it’s probably trending in a more positive direction, albeit is still challenging out there.

Mahon: Yes. And I would say – on the second question, Josh, I would say, first and foremost, demand continues to be very strong in our marketplace. And so we’re expecting order growth to continue in our fourth quarter. As you know, that typically is one of the larger quarters that we have for our sales organization and certainly for our customers as well. That being said, I would expect maybe some slight degradation in backlog just given, again, the deferral that we’re talking about within China. But don’t interpret that as us seeing anything slowing in the marketplace.

Meehan: I wanted to ask about the chemical and energy – good afternoon. So the chemical and energy acceleration, my first question is on the chemicals customers. So your commentary sounds pretty bullish. There has certainly been some headlines from some of the big European chemical players that have been a little bit more mixed though. So it would just be great to get your perspective on how you feel about the durability of that customer class and kind of squaring your view versus what we might be hearing from others in the market?

Mullen: Yes. That maybe more regionally specific to Europe, where we did see a level of growth a little bit slower than we’ve seen in the Americas and China. So I’d say that’s probably more regionally specific. And as we mentioned earlier on the call, Europe remains sort of a watch area for us because of, obviously, obvious challenges in that region right now. But I think we think it’s pretty durable right now. I mean, I think – remember, the chemical piece is going into some of these supply chains as fabs go up and other things. So it’s fueling some of the efforts in the advanced materials area. Bob, I know that you and Jacob looked at this a little more closely. I don’t know if there’s anything else you’d add to that?

Mahon: No. I think you’re spot on, Mike. I mean if we looked across the – all regions grew in C&E as, Mike, you were saying, but Europe was below the average. And so – but I think over time, that investment in some of these areas, we think, is ongoing demand.

Mullen: And Sam, I don’t know if you want to add some comments about what you’re seeing on the market as well?

Raha: Yes. Yes. Thanks, Mike, and thanks for the question. I mean, listen, it was a good quarter. We had the planned shutdown you already heard about. But I want to note that we are very pleased with the trend that we’re seeing that increasingly these very therapeutic oligos that we’re working on that the treatment modalities beyond the more rare indications are expanding into diseases for larger populations. For example, you might have seen just the recent news from Alnylam that reported favorable results on their Phase 3 study for patisiran. And this is for patients with ATTR for cardiomyopathy. And as Alnylam’s supplier for the API and patisiran, we’re of course, excited. We also think this is indicative of just generally the trend that we’re starting to see in the promise of therapeutic oligos. And our book of business remains strong as we go into the quarter and as we will go into next year.

Mullen: Thanks, Sam. I probably should elaborate a little more, Elizabeth, on the routine. I think it’s also important understand why we were shutting down, right? It’s both for routine maintenance but also a critical milestone in the construction of Train B. So we tied the infrastructure together. So that’s why we’re speaking with confidence about our ability to get revenue in ‘23.

Donnelly: Mike, maybe one for you – hey, how are you? Maybe one for you just on China specifically in terms of the linearity of the quarter. Can you just talk about – I mean it sounds like things clearly picked up as we went, obviously, on the supply side and you guys kind of got back online. Can you talk about the demand environment as well? Obviously, you guys are the only ones who have kind of a full July in the quarter. So just curious what kind of ramp you saw throughout the quarter. And then again, as we work our way through August here, I mean, it certainly seems like the order growth has been encouraging. But maybe just talk about how things trended there throughout the quarter kind of going into this quarter.

Mullen: Great question. Yes, sure. Happy to do so. I think it’s a great question. And I’ll pass my response into two areas : orders and revenue. So I think I would say the order intake throughout the quarter was there. It was linear, smooth, no, no big lumpiness and the fact that what we saw in the second quarter as well. So now as you know, the revenue side has been a different story because the ability to get product in and out of China as well as produced in China was affected by the COVID-19 shutdowns. And that’s where we saw maybe a slower start first few weeks of Q3, but then the team’s efforts really started paying off when we were able to get back into our facilities. So I think the ramp rate of revenue had looked at a little different profile throughout the quarter. And Bob, I don’t know if you’d add anything?

Mahon: Yes. No, that’s exactly right. I mean if you think about the months in our quarters, May was very light. As we talked about, we were ramping up, and I think we exited May at like 25% capacity. And then the teams really started kicking in in gear as the COVID restrictions started to ease. And July was very strong as they not only got the production up to full capacity, but then were able to not only satisfy existing demand, but also some of that deferral bring it in.

Mullen: And they were really focused on meeting the expectations of our customers who wanted the product. And as I mentioned earlier in my earlier comments, we had teams working a lot of overtime, working in the factories over the weekend.

Donnelly: Yes. It’s encouraging to hear. And then, Bob, maybe one for you just on the margin side. You talked about pricing a few times on the call. Can you just talk about, I guess, the flow-through to the margin side? You basically said it’s offsetting some of the increase in costs. Maybe just talk about the give and take on that front in terms of pricing increases, the cost increases and how we should think about kind of that algorithm going forward on the margin piece.

Mahon: Yes. I think if you looked at our 150 basis points year-on-year, it was roughly 50 basis points in gross margin and then 100 basis points of leverage on the SG&A OpEx side. And I think if you looked at that, there was some productivity. As I mentioned, price probably would have kept things flat. And then the other 50 basis points were a benefit of some productivity that the OFS team did and then the volume. That’s the thing that really – I think really helped drive a benefit in gross margin is just the amount of product that was able to be produced through the factories. And so that I think – think about pricing as covering our costs. And then if those incrementals around better-than-expected revenues drove the margin improvement on the gross margin side. What I would say is we continue to leverage the

Daley: Quickly, wanted to touch back on NASD here. So if we’re just thinking about when we’re past the Train B build-out, things have kind of normalized a bit, you’re starting to leverage those investments and upfront costs here, what’s the clean run rate margin profile to think about in that business, I guess, initially when we get past that capacity build-out here?

Ahuja: Thanks, Hannah, and thanks, everyone, for joining. With that, we would like to wrap up the call for today.

Mullen: Thanks, Parmeet. And thanks, everyone, for joining our call today. In the fourth quarter, the Agilent team continued its strong performance. We delivered an excellent quarter, significantly exceeding our revenue and earnings expectations. Revenue of $1.85 billion is up more than 17% core. Our strong top line performance helped deliver fourth quarter operating margins of 29.1%. The operating margins continue to expand despite the inflationary environment and the strengthening dollar and are up 260 basis points from last year. Earnings per share of $1.53 were up 26%. These Q4 results mark an outstanding finish to another strong year for Agilent’s fiscal 2022. The full year revenue of $6.85 billion, we delivered core revenue growth of 12%. This is on top of core revenue growth of 15% in 2021. Our operating margin continued to increase and a 27.1% for the year, up 160 basis points. Earnings per share of $5.22 per share, up 20% for the year. Rx result this year highlight the ongoing strength of our diversified business and shine a light on the multiple growth drivers we put in place over the years. They also continue to demonstrate the outstanding execution capabilities of the Agilent team. Throughout the year, we navigated market uncertainties, inflation, COVID-related shutdowns and supply chain and logistics constraints. Our strength is broad-based with all three business groups growing double digits for the year. All major geographies and regions grew double digits in FY '22 after adjusting from our exit from Russia. This was highlighted by China leading the way, growing 18%. From an end market perspective, all markets expanded led by excellent growth in our two largest markets, Pharma and Chemical & Advanced Materials. All in all, it was an extremely good year for Agilent. Let's now take a closer look at our fourth quarter performance, starting with end market highlights. During Q4, our performance led by 20%-plus growth in three of our six end markets. Pharma, our largest market, posted 20% growth on top of 21% in Q4 last year. The Chemicals & Advanced Materials business grew 27%. We saw robust demand in chemicals, along with secular growth in semiconductors, batteries and other advanced materials. The food market also grew 20% on a strong end-of-year demand in China that have been previously delayed by COVID-related shutdowns. On a regional basis, China led the way for us with stellar 44% growth as demand remains strong. Business activity continued to recover and the Agilent team worked quickly and effectively to start working down the backlog including delivering remaining shipments deferred due to the Shanghai COVID related shutdown in Q2. Europe also exceeded expectations by delivering double-digit growth in the quarter, coming in 14% higher than a year ago, with broad strength across our markets, highlighted by low 20s growth in pharma. Looking at our performance by business unit, the Life Science and Applied Markets Group continued its outstanding performance and posted revenue of $1.12 billion. This represents growth of 22% with the instrument business growing 24% and our Consumers and Applied business growing 15%. We also saw excellent low 30s growth in our LC/MS instruments business as our solutions continue to resonate with customers. LSAG was able to build our leadership implied markets with spectroscopy growing in the low 20s and the GC and GC/MS business growing in the low 30s. In addition, Agilent is doing its part to help customers monitor and manage microplastic in the environment as we released the latest version of the 8700 LDIR chemical imaging system. This unique system has been optimized specifically for the analysis of microplastics in environmental samples. The ads on Agilent CrossLab Group posted revenue of $381 million in Q4. This is up 14% core with broad-based strength across our entire portfolio of offerings. Pharma and Chemicals & Advanced Materials both grew mid-teens for ACG. On a regional basis, China led the way with high 20s growth as business continued to recover. ACG also delivered double-digit growth in the Americas. ACG has delivered double-digit growth for us every quarter this year, and our engagement large enterprise customers continues to accelerate. Through its deep understanding and insights into lab operations, the ACG team continues to build strategic partnerships and long-term relationships that maximize customer value and provide ongoing demand for services and support. The Diagnostics and Genomics Group delivered revenue of $352 million, up 8% core. DGG's results were led by strong growth in the low 20s for NASD. As expected, our NASD business delivered high quarterly revenue on a sequential basis given the plant shutdown last quarter. Our genomics portfolio also posted solid results, growing low teens and pathology grew mid-single digits. On a regional basis, DGG also delivered mid-20s growth in China. In addition to these business group highlights, during Q4, Agilent was recognized by the World Economic Forum Global Lighthouse Network as a world leader in advanced manufacturing. Agilent's manufacturing facility in Singapore received this recognition for deploying innovative technologies at scale in the manufacture of scientific instruments, driving productivity, while advancing sustainability. Also, we are extremely pleased to announce a new multimillion-dollar partnership with Delaware State University, a leading historically black university. The work we will do together with DSU is geared towards increasing the number of underrepresented students entering stem fields. In addition, Agilent is certified as a great place to work by the Great Place to Work Institute in more than 20 countries and regions around the world during the quarter. This recognition distinguishes Agilent as a top employer based on an independent survey of its global workforce. Recap in 2022, we had another very successful year, not only on delivering excellent financial results, but building for the future. We continue to drive innovation focused on supporting our customers and executing our Build and Buy strategy to outgrow the market. The Agilent team continues to deliver. We have built a resilient company with multiple drivers for growth and target investments focused on high-growth areas. We have an unstoppable One Agilent team that can take on any challenge and execute at an extremely high level. As we look ahead to 2023, we believe these qualities are a winning formula for continuing to deliver in an increasingly uncertain economic environment. Bob will now share more detail on the quarter and the year along with our initial view on expectations for fiscal year 2023. After his remarks, I will rejoin to add some final comments and perspective.

Mahon: Thanks, Mike, and good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I will provide some additional details on revenue in the quarter and the year as well as take you through the income statement and other key financial metrics. I'll then finish up with our guidance for fiscal year 2023 and the first quarter. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. We are extremely pleased with our Q4 performance and finished the year on a very strong note, exceeding our expectations on both revenue and earnings per share. Q4 revenue was $1.85 billion, up 17.5% core and 11.4% on a reported basis. During the quarter, we saw the dollar continue to strengthen. Currency exchange rates were a 6.2 point headwind to growth or $103 million. The contribution from M&A was as expected, adding 0.1 point to reported growth. Our performance was again broad-based as all end markets and regions grew during the quarter. Orders also grew again during the quarter, while outstanding execution from our order fulfillment and supply chain teams enabled us to start working down our record backlog. As we enter FY '23, our backlog is still elevated and helps provide good visibility and confidence in our outlook going forward. Now I'd like to share additional details on our end markets. Results in our largest market pharma were very strong. This market represents 37% of Agilent's revenue and grew 20% in the quarter. Biopharma grew 18% and small molecule was up 21%. Looking forward, we expect the pharma end market to grow high single digits in FY '23. Chemicals and Advanced Materials led growth for us during the quarter at 27%. This compares with 11% growth in Q4 of last year. All three submarkets, Chemicals, Advanced Materials and Energy had strong growth in the quarter. All regions grew as well, led by China. Demand continues to be driven by investments in advanced materials, driving secular growth opportunities in batteries, alternative energy and semiconductors. While not immune to macro uncertainties, we believe these secular drivers in Advanced Materials will continue, helping to drive mid-single-digit growth for this market next year. We delivered growth of 20% in the food market led by China as our results continue to benefit from the recovery of revenue delays due to COVID-related shutdowns in Q2. During FY '23, we expect the food market to normalize and grow in the low single digits after two years of very strong growth. The Environmental & Forensics market posted 18% growth with particular strength in the Americas. This result was driven by increased governmental spending helping to drive technology refresh for newer applications like PFAS testing. Europe and China also posted impressive double-digit growth in the quarter. We see PFAS-related funding and demand continuing to be a driver for this end market and expect mid-single-digit growth next year. Our business in the diagnostics and clinical market grew 6% against an 11% compare last year. Growth was led by Europe and China, while Americas grew low single digits. We also expect to see mid-single-digit growth in this market in FY '23. The Academia & Government market grew 3%, led by continued strength in our service business. This market grew 3% overall for the year as well; and looking forward, we expect similar growth in 2023. On a geographic basis, China led the way with phenomenal 44% growth in Q4, driven by underlying demand across multiple end markets and our continued ability to quickly recover deferred revenue from Q2. As we have discussed the last two quarters, the COVID-related lockdowns in China earlier this year deferred an estimated $50 million to $55 million in revenue from Q2 into future quarters. This recovery started last quarter, and our team in China continued their outstanding work to ramp production and shipments quickly in Q4. We've now fully worked through this deferred revenue a full quarter earlier than originally anticipated back in Q2, a true testament to the entire team. We estimate this recovery had a mid-single-digit positive impact to China's Q4 growth. So even excluding this, our business performance in Q4 was very strong. Now looking ahead to next year, we expect China will continue to be a key growth driver for us. And as Mike mentioned, Europe grew a very solid 14%, which exceeded our expectations. We also posted 8% growth in the Americas, driven by Pharma, Chemicals & Advanced Materials and strong growth in the Environmental & Forensics market, partially offset by Academia & Government. And lastly, the rest of Asia grew 12%. Now turning to the rest of the P&L. Our team continues to execute at a very high level. Fourth quarter gross margin was 56.3%, up 40 basis points from a year ago. Volume leverage, along with pricing, helped overcome continued inflationary pressures and higher logistics costs. Our operating margin was 29.1% in Q4, up 260 basis points from last year. Below the line, our tax rate was 14% for the quarter as expected, and we had 298 million diluted shares outstanding. Putting it all together, earnings per share were $1.53 for the quarter, up 26% from a year ago, as Mike mentioned. So in summary, Q4 ended with 17% core top line growth and 26% EPS growth, a very strong finish to the year, where we had revenue growth of 12% and EPS growth of 20%. Now some metrics on our cash flow and balance sheet. In Q4, we generated operating cash flow of $448 million, while investing $70 million in capital expenditures. The CapEx spending is driven by our continued scale-up of Train B for our NASD expansion. And in the quarter, we also paid out $62 million in dividends and repurchased shares valued at $135 million. For the year, we returned almost $1.4 billion to shareholders through $250 million in dividends and a bit more than $1.1 billion in share repurchases. And as we've indicated before, given the ongoing strength of the business, we believe these share repurchases represent a very good long-term investment. Our balance sheet continues to remain healthy as we end the fiscal year with a net leverage ratio of 0.8. Now let's move to our outlook for the upcoming fiscal year and first quarter. Now looking forward to 2023, we entered the year with business momentum and a very healthy backlog. We also acknowledge the increasingly uncertain macro environment, rising interest rates and currency headwinds and have reflected that in our thinking based on what we know today. For fiscal year 2023, we expect revenue in the range of $6.9 billion to $7 billion as we have significantly greater currency headwinds since the last we spoke. Core growth is expected to be in the range of 5% to 6.5%, in line with our long-range goals. Currency will negatively affect reported growth by 430 basis points or roughly $295 million during the year based on fiscal year-end rates. And to help with your modeling at a business group level, this revenue guidance assumes mid-single-digit core growth for LSAG, mid- to high single-digit growth for DGG and high single-digit growth for ACG. And despite the ongoing currency headwinds and a continued inflationary environment, we are expecting operating margin expansion for FY '23. Now below the line, we expect $40 million to $50 million of net expense, a tax rate of 13.75%, which is slightly below this year and 297 million shares outstanding. Fiscal 2023 non-GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $5.61 to $5.69. This range represents a growth rate of 7.5% to 9% versus the prior year and incorporates an estimated 4 percentage point headwind due to currency net of our hedging activities. We are also expecting $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion in operating cash next year and CapEx of roughly $300 million based on currently approved expansion projects, primarily Train B for NASD. We have also announced raising our dividend 7%, providing our shareholders with another source of value. And finally, for Q1 2023, we expect revenue in the range of $1.68 billion to $1.70 billion. Core growth is expected to be in the range of 6.8% to 8%, while currency will be a 6.6 point headwind to reported growth. This outlook for the quarter incorporates the impact of the timing of Lunar New Year this year. First quarter 2023 non-GAAP earnings per share expected to be between $1.29 and $1.31. Mike will speak to this further in just a minute, but our diversified business model and the strength of our team are key assets for Agilent. These two elements produced an outstanding Q4 and a full year 2022 and they have put us in an excellent position to again deliver strong results in the coming year. And now I will turn the floor back over to Mike for some closing comments. Mike?

Mullen: Thanks, Bob. Today's results are a strong indication that Agilent has the right growth strategies, the right team and right culture to continue delivering strong results. Our customers know we are reliable, resilient and extremely quick in reacting to meet their needs. The Agilent team continues to work hard to earn their trust. Looking ahead, we are all seeing increasing economic uncertainty. However, this company and team have built to successfully navigate any economic challenges we may encounter. Throughout the pandemic, we have stated that Agilent will emerge as a stronger company. Today's results are yet another proof point that we are well on our way in this journey, and we're not done yet. We continue to prioritize investments in growth. We are a resilient company with multiple growth drivers and unmatched execution capabilities. I'm quite confident we will continue to react quickly to changing conditions and deliver at a high level. Thanks for being on the call. And now I will turn things back over to Parmeet as we take your questions. Parmeet?

Thaysen: Yes, I think you're right, Mike. I think we're seeing, as you mentioned, there has been some pause in the capital equipment investment over the years, and we're definitely seeing that coming back. So -- and both in the HPI, but also in the renewable energy, we continue to see a lot of strength, and we believe that will continue forward.

Souda: Mike, Bob, thanks for taking the question. I mean to say this is impressive as a quarter is an understatement in the sort of uncertain times. So first of all, congrats on the quarter. Mike, so on China, impressive results there. Can you just parse that out a bit? I know you talked about gas chromatography delays were there, and those are -- it looks like they're fully booked in this quarter and the revenues booked or food is also impressive. Could you maybe talk about the order book visibility you have in China and your growth expectations there going forward despite the Lunar Year? And also, what is the longer-term expectation for overall growth in China, just given the multiple end markets that are working so well for you in the quarter?

Mullen: Yes, sure, Puneet. Happy to respond and Bob and I probably can have tag team on this. But again, thanks for your earlier comments, brought a lot of smiles in the room here. Yes, we were quite pleased with the results for China, not only in the quarter but for the year. And I think it's important to know the 44% print we had in Q4 wasn't just about catch-up from deferred revenue due to the COVID; and again, shutdowns. And again, it points to the fact that when you do see those types of things happen, eventually, the business does materialize. We didn't lose any business. I think the strength of the business continues to be there across multiple end markets, really been led by pharma, chemical. And then we think that the food market will probably normalize to kind of the traditional growth rates in China. But expecting pharma and the CAM marketplace to be strong, in particular, a lot of -- we expect a lot of business on the renewable energy and HPI side in China as well. So that Advanced Materials segment, we've been talking a lot about, we think is going to sustain the growth in China in '23. But I think we're kind of looking at maybe high singles for China for next year. Is our initial thinking?

Mullen: Yes. Thanks, Jacob, for those build. And this is the first time in my tenure where that we've seen this kind of money coming in, in the U.S. marketplace with the government support. So it's a very encouraging trend, and we think that trend is going to be with us into '23.

Couillard: That's great. Then a couple for Bob. Just number one, can you just quantify the Lunar New Year impact in the first quarter on a year-over-year basis. And then with supply chain loosening, which it sounds like they are, what are the implications for that in terms of working capital as you move through the balance of the year?

Mahon: Yes. Brandon, thanks for the questions. Yes, the Lunar New Year is roughly a little over 0.5 point impact year-on-year for headwind had in our first quarter. It starts in mid-January this year versus the first of February last year. And so -- and for those that will come back to us in the second quarter. And then I think in terms of supply chain, -- it is -- we think it is improving, but it's not back to kind of pre-COVID levels, both on the standpoint of being able to get products to customers, but also procuring raw materials and the costs associated with that. We do think that that's going to improve over time. I would say I wouldn't expect any changes -- any material changes certainly in the first half of the year and then maybe some slight changes as we get into the back half of the year. But -- we do think it is improving, but we've increased our stocks of critical supplies. And I don't think it will go back to pre-COVID levels in terms of how we're running that just to ensure that we have the ability to flex when we need to if there were challenges around logistics across the world.

Brennan: Congrats on the quarter. Maybe just the first one, just on LSAG. Another really impressive quarter with 24% growth on the instruments. So the mid-single-digit guide, obviously, you're up against tough comps, but it does reflect the notable slowdown from what you guys have been doing. And maybe just walk through a little bit of what kind of drove the strength this quarter kind of end market versus Agilent specific? And then is there just a healthy degree of conservatism baked in for the guide? Or is it really just tough comps?

Mahon: The only thing I would say, Dan, this is Bob, to add is this is an area -- sometimes people ask us, this would be an area of potential upside? If things continue the way that they are, there would be an opportunity for upside in this end market, given the strength that we're seeing.

Vatnsdal: So first up on Train B. Last quarter, you guys said that there were some supply chain delays as you guys were building up that manufacturing line. So can you just give us the latest on timing if you're still on track for that to come online mid fiscal year.? And then thinking about beyond Train B, you guys have hinted at potential capacity expansions beyond this. So can you give us the latest on your thinking on those capacity expansions and when we could hear an update there?

Mullen: Yes. So Sam, why don't you take the first part, and I'll close with the second part?

Donnell: Yes. I think, Mike, as you said, touch rates continue to be very strong, and it's much more than a break/fix business and we see our contract rates actually growing at double digits, which is incredibly sticky with customers. And all key offering categories right from enterprise down to some of the preventive maintenance services we do are all very, very strong. We also see that, of course, we have a large installed base and being able to provide different solutions and services for that have been really great. I will close by saying that we had some very big wins in the enterprise service business, and that's where we really look about productivity of labs and how we help customers with their outcomes, and we're seeing that increase as we go through the quarter and through the year.

Waldman: Then Bob or Mike, curious to get your updated thoughts on supply chain and what you're seeing from a component availability and cost perspective entering '23? And I guess, whether or not your guide assumes improvements in either of these or maybe if supply chain improvement could represent upside to the guide?

Mahon: Yes. I would say we have seen in the second half of this year, incremental improvements as we went through Q3 and Q4 that helped us allow us to increase our revenue here in Q4. I would expect that incremental improvement to continue into next year. But it's by no means back to kind of normal I think if it happens to improve, I do think that, that would be a good thing for us. And -- but we're not -- we're assuming kind of the same level of improvement that we've seen in the back half of this year moving into FY '23. I do think that some of the costs have come down but there we're still having to purchase things in the aftermarket to be able to ensure supply and deliver to customers.

Mullen: Yes. Sam you know might obviously take a lead on that just to kind of -- and then have Bob jump in here as well. I mean we're assuming that our new capacity for Train B comes online, mid-year calendar year, it starts and will reach I believe full capacity by the end of the year. And we do think there's further expansion opportunities both in terms of what we do already, but broadening the portfolio. But Bob, maybe you want to walk through some of the thoughts on the financial expectations.

Mahon: Yes. I mean we ended this year touching on roughly $300 million for that business, and we've talked about this Train B being $150 million plus of capacity when Mike says we're going to be at capacity at that run rate by the end of the fiscal year. And you could imagine that probably less than half of that is a ramp-up, but we would expect a strong growth here. And I would say Train B is primarily siRNA, although we do have early -- some growing business in CRISPR Therapeutics out of our existing facilities, and we expect that to continue to grow as well.

Arias: Hey, Mike, just a question on GC/MS. 30% growth for the quarter is pretty robust. For '23, would you expect a little bit of a decoupling from LC/MS there just given that it feels like there's more -- a little bit more cyclicality on the GC side, maybe a little bit more pharma on the LC side? Or do you think those portfolios track similarly again?

Ahuja: Thanks, Bo, and thanks, everyone, for joining. With that, we would like to wrap up the call for today.

Mullen: Thanks, Parmeet. And thanks, everyone, for joining our call today. The Agent team delivered an excellent start to 2023, exceeding both top and bottom line expectations. Q1 revenues of $1.76 billion or up 10% core. Agilent's broad-based portfolio and resilient growth model are on a full display during the quarter with growth across all end markets and geographic regions. Operating margin in the quarter are 27.1%, up 80 basis points. Earnings per share of $1.37 were up 13%. Let's now take a closer look at our first quarter performance, starting with end market highlights. Chemicals and Advanced materials led the way for us with another outstanding quarter, delivering 14% core growth with strength across all geographies. The strength in our pharma business continues and is up 11%, with both large and small molecule growing nicely. This is on top of 17% growth last year. Our environmental friend business grew 12%, while the academia government and the food markets both grew 8%. On a geographic basis, China once again led the way. Our China team continued their record of strong execution overcoming any disruption associated with COVID and delivered 13% growth during the quarter, exceeding our expectations. In Europe, we also delivered stronger-than-expected results, growing 10%. The Americas shows a solid results with 8% growth. Looking at our performance by business unit. The Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group delivered revenues of $1.03 billion, up 11% core. LSAG delivered growth across all end markets and regions. Our LC and LC/MS platforms continued their strong performance during the quarter, growing faster than the market at 16%. Demand in the chemicals and advanced materials end market continues to be strong. particularly for materials used in manufacturing semiconductors and batteries. Our Spectra business grew more than 20% in the quarter and we continue to strengthen our base in spectroscopy across multiple end markets. In Q1, we announced an appointment at the Insight200M. This system is used at checkpoints throughout the London Heathrow Airport to officially provide enhanced security and ensure passenger safety. The Asian Crosse group posted revenue of $381 million in Q1. This is up 13% core as the team continues to take advantage of record instrument placements over the past 2 years along with continued growth and attach rates. Across our team's deep knowledge of customer lab operations continues to drive consistently high levels of customer satisfaction. The breadth and diversity of our product offerings is driving record renewals for support contracts. At the same time, our Enterprise Services business continued its strong momentum, driving growth and converting competitive accounts. The Diagnostics and Genomics Group delivered revenues of $342 million, up 5% core. Our pathology-related business performed well with double-digit growth led by the Americas and Europe. NASD posted another strong quarter, growing 22%. Our Train B manufacturing expansion remains on track to come online mid-calendar year. In January, we announced an additional $725 million expansion of our NASD facility that will double our oligo manufacturing capacity. And 2 weeks ago, we are pleased to have the Governor of Colorado join us in our groundbreaking ceremony at the Frederick site. In addition to organic investments, we continue to invest externally in new technologies and partnerships. In the quarter, we welcomed the Avida Biomed team into Agilent, further enhancing our genomics capabilities. Avida is early-stage life sciences company designed to assist clinical researchers using NGS approach in the study of cancer. We also continue to partner with new technology platform companies to drive our solutions in the marketplace. This quarter, we announced a partnership with the Akoya Biosciences to combine our companion diagnostic and IHC workload expertise with their solution to drive multiplex tissue assay development for biopharma. In addition to these business group highlights, Agilent was again recognized among the top 100 most just companies in the U.S. by Just Capital and CNBC. As part of this announcement, we are very proud to be the leader in the medical equipment and services industry for our treatment of employees and focus on customer relations. The Agilent team navigated challenging market uncertainties in Q1 and yet once again produced excellent results. It was a great start to the year. Q1 was another outstanding example of the work we've done to build a resilient company with multiple growth drivers. Those growth drivers create through targeted investments that aim to expand and enhance our business in high-growth areas are the heart of our Build and Buy growth strategy. As we look ahead to Q2, we remain confident in the strength and resilience of our business. We have an unstoppable One Agilent team that continues to execute at an extremely high level and is well prepared to deal with any challenges they face. Given the strong start to the year, we are raising our full year core revenue and EPS guidance while also keeping a close eye on macroeconomic conditions. I will provide the detail on our overall outlook but overall, we remain convinced our strategic focus and unmatched execution capabilities will continue to drive strong results.

Mahon: Thanks, Mike and good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I'll provide some additional details on revenue in the quarter as well as take you through the income statement and other key financial metrics. I'll then finish up with our updated full year guidance and initial guidance for the second quarter. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. We are extremely pleased with our Q1 performance. It was a very solid start to the year. Q1 revenue was $1.76 billion, exceeding our expectations. Revenues were up 10% core and 5% on a reported basis. Currency was a 5-point headwind which was an improvement from the beginning of the quarter, while the M&A contribution was as we expected. Pricing for the quarter was higher than the full year forecast also as we expected. Now I'd like to share some additional detail on our end markets. Results in our largest market, pharma were again very strong. Pharma grew 11% following 17% growth of last year. Performance was solid across both small and large molecules. Small molecule grew 12%, while large molecule grew 9%. And as Mike mentioned, Chemicals and Advanced Materials also continued to be very strong, growing 14% during the quarter on top of 15% growth last year. The chemical and energy subsegments of the market are doing well while the advanced materials market continues to deliver outsized growth. Semiconductors and batteries are driving demand, helped by government investment in this area. The food market grew 8% during the quarter, driven by double-digit growth in China. The environmental and forensics business grew 12%, led by the Americas as increased testing for PFAS chemicals drives customer investment in this area and recently approved U.S. legislation leads to broad spending in the environmental market. Our business in the diagnostics and clinical market grew 4% versus 11% growth last year. Pathology led the way for us here, partially offset by industry-wide challenges in the genomics market. And the academia and government market was up 8%, led by LCs and services. Regionally, Europe and Asia showed strong results. On a geographic basis, the China team delivered 13% growth and Europe grew 10%, both exceeding expectations. The Americas had another solid quarter coming in at 8%, in line with our expectations. Now let's turn to the rest of the P&L. First quarter gross margin was 56.5%, up 40 basis points from a year ago. The gross margin performance, coupled with good cost discipline and SG&A helped drive our operating margin to 27.1%, up 80 basis points from last year. Below the line, our tax rate was 13.75% for the quarter and we had 297 million diluted shares outstanding, both as expected. And putting it all together, earnings per share were $1.37, up 13% from a year ago. In summary, Q1 ended with 10% core top line growth and 13% earnings per share growth, a very good start to the year. Now some metrics on cash flow and our balance sheet. In Q1, we generated $296 million in operating cash flow, up 16% versus last year, while investing $76 million in CapEx. CapEx spending continues to be driven by our scale-up of our Train B manufacturing line and other capacity expansion projects. In the quarter, we returned $142 million to shareholders through $67 million in dividends and by repurchasing shares worth $75 million. We also announced we're increasing our dividend by 7%, along with a new $2 billion share repurchase authorization continuing our successful balanced approach to capital deployment. Our balance sheet continues to remain healthy as we ended the quarter with a net leverage ratio of 0.8. Now let's move to our revised outlook for the year and the upcoming quarter. The macroeconomic environment remains dynamic and interest rates and currencies continue to be volatile. However, given the good start to the year, we are increasing our full year revenue to a range of $7.03 billion to $7.10 billion. This increase updates our full year core revenue guidance to a range of 5.5% to 6.5%, increasing the midpoint of our guidance to 6%. We've also seen the dollar weaken against major currencies in the first quarter although it has rebounded somewhat in February. And as a result, the full year guide reflects $100 million of favorable currency movements since our initial guide in November. And for the full year, we still expect currency to be an almost 300 basis point headwind to reported growth. In addition, we're also raising our full year EPS guidance to a new range of $5.65 to $5.70 per share. And lastly, given the recently announced NASD expansion to double our oligo manufacturing capacity -- we are updating our forecasted capital spending for the year to $500 million, up $200 million from our guidance at the beginning of the year. Now turning to Q2, we expect revenue in the range of $1.655 billion to $1.680 billion. This represents core growth of 6% to 7.5% and reported growth of 3% to 4.5%. Currency is expected to be a headwind of 3.1 points, while M&A will contribute 0.1 points of growth in Q2 which is consistent with Q1. Second quarter non-GAAP earnings per share are expected to be between $1.24 and $1.27, representing growth of 10% to 12% versus the prior year. I'm pleased with how the team has delivered in the first quarter. We are focused on the things we can control. Our team is driving strong execution in the marketplace and coupled with our broad portfolio of products and services, we expect to continue to grow faster than the market as we go through the year. Thanks for being on the call. And now I'll turn over things back to Parmeet as we take your questions. Parmeet?

Sykes: Mike and Bob, maybe we'll start on ACG, just given the quarter that it had and the comp it was facing last year, you've talked in the past about areas of underpenetration. I think China was a region you called out. Could you just maybe kind of give us a mark-to-market on where you feel from sort of an end market and regional standpoint, there's still a lot of room for that growth in ACG if we see it continue throughout this year and into next?

Mahon: Yes, let me just add something. I mean I would say this means nothing to our expansion. I mean or I want to be very clear about that. I mean I think we feel very good about -- we've continued to be capacity constrained. We've had more orders than we can satisfy. And I think that continues to be the case and we feel extremely good about the overall technology and our position in the marketplace.

Raha: Mike, if I can just add just a couple of quick things, right? We've stated this before. We think the therapeutic oligo market for the suppliers that we are $1 billion today, growing to $2.4 billion by 2027. And what's really encouraging about the market is the number of molecules that are advancing, right? Just to give you a little bit more color, we're doing work with over 30 pharma partners today and on dozens of programs at various stages. So the pipeline of programs are working on, some of which have the potential of being molecules also broad populations is absolutely there and something that we're excited about.

Souda: So first one, Bob, I don't know if I heard it on the call, contribution sort of from pricing in the quarter and for the full year. If I'm correct, you are still expecting 3% pricing contribution this year and that would imply a 3% volume contribution which it appears below historical levels for what Agilent has grown. So just maybe just -- we're trying to understand, given the tailwinds you're seeing in China, NASD and the other areas and obviously, congrats on the strong growth in the quarter. So is there anything you're seeing beyond sort of tougher compares that are emerging in the sort of the second half?

Mullen: And Jack, I think the point you made earlier, too, about some of the funding environment, we're seeing some government funding coming in from different parts of the world as part of the semiconductor industry which has benefited us.

Vatnsdal: Great. And then maybe just shifting over more towards pharma biotech. The small molecule grew faster than large molecule this quarter. You've talked in the past about some of that outpaced strength in small molecule being driven from spending related to instrument purchases that were delayed back in 2018, 2019 time frame. Can you walk us through really what inning are we in, in terms of that catch-up spend? And how long can you sustain an outpaced growth in small molecule before it kind of resets back to that normalized level?

Mullen: Sure, Rachel, do I dare pass this question to the Danish member of the staff over that baseball analogy but I think, Jacob, got a great print on LC and LC/MS 17% growth, clearly outpacing the market. And I think we saw some really good strength in small molecule in particular this quarter.

Mullen: Yes. No, I think you're closing -- happy to comment on the day your closing comments exactly where our head is at which is the right fit. So we think the environment is much more favorable than it was a year ago. We think it's now much more of a buyer's market, so to speak. Most people are willing to come off at a view of last round. There's still some dialogue around there. So we're -- we have obviously nothing to announce but we remain very interested in looking for opportunities that can augment our core organic business and this is at the heart of our build and buy growth strategy. As I've said a number of times, the buy side is all optionality for us. We'll do just fine with all the bets we have right now. But if we see the right thing, we will move on it. And we just have also just wanted to make sure we stuck with our framework and we don't ever want to have buyers remorse. So we've been very happy with all the deals we've done to date and we'll continue to use that framework moving forward. I think that fit piece that you described is really a key criteria for us.

Donnelly: Maybe one on just the order side. I know you guys talked a little bit about the backlog remaining pretty healthy. Can you just give a little bit of color in terms of what the order growth looked like in the quarter? I know last quarter, you guys started eating into the backlog a little bit which is natural, just given the supply chain is normalizing a little bit. Can you just talk about, I guess, order growth versus revenue growth, what you saw in the quarter?

Mullen: Yes. Let me make some summary comments and then Bob, feel free to jump in here. But as you mentioned, we don't specifically provide book-to-bill ratios. But what I can tell you is that orders for the quarter were greater than revenue. So -- and so we continue to grow orders with particular strength in our ASD and the services business. On the instrument side, we continue to bring down this record backlog we had as we really are focused on meeting those customer shipment requirements and really thanks to the great work of the order fulfillment team, we've really been able to get back to a normal flow of shipment times and delivery commitments. Again, I would just say that the funnels remain healthy, the backlog is still a very high quality. I think we have pretty much next to no cancellations. So the quality is good. It gives Bob and

Mahon: Yes. I would say, as Mike said, I mean, the backlog continues to be healthy and we haven't seen anyone back out of any cancellations or anything like that, that would be beyond kind of the normal activity.

Mahon: Thanks, Mike, and good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I will provide some additional details on revenue in the quarter as well as take you through the income statement and other key financial metrics. I'll then finish up with our updated guidance for the year and our third quarter outlook. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. Q2 revenue was $1.72 billion, exceeding our expectations. Revenues were up 9.5% core and up 6.8% on a reported basis. Currency was a 2.8 point headwind, while the M&A contribution was minor as expected. In Q2, we continued to leverage our backlog and exited the quarter with our backlog at a normalized level. As Mike mentioned, our two largest end markets performed well in the quarter. Pharma, our largest end market, posted 6% growth led by biopharma, while small molecule declined slightly. Chemicals and advanced materials continued to drive strong secular growth of 16% during the quarter on top of 9% growth last year. The chemical and energy subsegments of the market are doing well, with the advanced materials market continuing to lead the way. As in past quarters, semiconductors and batteries are driving demand in this space. And looking at the rest of the end markets, the food market grew an impressive 21% during the quarter driven by very strong growth in China. We also saw strong results in the Americas and in Europe. The academia and government market was up 11%, led by China and Europe as the funding environment continues to be constructive. Our business in the diagnostics and clinical market grew 6% on top of 5% growth last year. Pathology again led the way for us here, partially offset by genomics. And the environmental and forensics business grew 2%, led by China and the Americas, while Europe declined. The Americas slowed after a very strong Q1, but still delivered mid-single-digit growth. On a geographic basis, the China team exceeded our expectations, delivering 32% growth following last year's COVID lockdowns in Shanghai. As we mentioned last year, the COVID-related lockdowns deferred roughly $55 million in Q2 from last year into third and fourth quarters. So while Q2 is an easier compare, we will have much tougher compares in China going forward. Taking out the effects of the lockdown this quarter, we estimate China still grew double digits, so very solid results by our China team. And the rest of Asia grew high single digits, better than expected. The Americas grew 3% with growth across all end markets. From a group perspective, both ACG and DGG grew, while LSAG unexpectedly declined low single digits as we started to see the accelerated effects of the slowing CapEx environment. Europe grew 5%, in line with expectations led by pharma and CAM. Now moving down the P&L. Second quarter gross margin was 55.3%, down 40 basis points from a year ago, largely due to an unfavorable product mix. The benefit of pricing was as expected. Below gross margin, we had good cost discipline in SG&A, which drove our operating margin to 25.6%, up 30 basis points from last year. Below the line, we benefited from higher-than-planned interest income due to higher interest rates and strong cash flow. Our tax rate was 13.75% for the quarter and we had 297 million diluted shares outstanding, both as expected. Now putting it all together, Q2 earnings per share were $1.27, up 12% from a year ago, a very good result, combined with our 9.5% core topline growth. During the quarter, operating cash flow was very strong, generating $398 million. This result was helped in part by deferring estimated U.S. tax payments of roughly $60 million to our fiscal fourth quarter. This is due to the payment deferral relief made available by the IRS to taxpayers in designated counties affected by the winter storms in California. We returned $151 million to shareholders, $66 million through dividends and repurchased shares worth $85 million, while also investing $57 million in CapEx, continuing our successful balanced approach to capital deployment. Our strong balance sheet is even more of an asset in this market environment and remains very healthy as we ended the quarter with a net leverage ratio of 0.7x. And earlier this month, Moody's upgraded Agilent's investment-grade rating on our corporate long-term debt to Baa1. This action is an important recognition of Agilent's financial strength. Now on to the revised outlook for the year and guidance for Q3. For the year, we now expect revenue to be in the range of $6.93 billion to $7.03 billion. This represents reported growth of 1.2% to 2.7% and core growth of 3% to 4.5%. Currency is expected to be a headwind of 1.9 points while M&A will contribute 0.1 points of growth. In addition to revising our guidance, we've increased the guidance range for the second half of the year to reflect a wider range of possible outcomes. For modeling purposes, I would encourage you to use the midpoint of our guide. Our updated guidance reflects a more constrained capital market, primarily impacting our instrument business. The outlook for our recurring revenue businesses remains largely unchanged. From an end market perspective, the market most impacted is pharma where we are now expecting full year growth of low single digits, down from high single digits. And from a geographic perspective, we see impacts focused in the U.S. and China. With the change in revenue, we now expect full year fiscal 2023 non-GAAP earnings per share to be between $5.60 and $5.65, representing growth of 7% to 8%. As with revenue, I encourage you to model at the midpoint of our guidance. Now turning to Q3. We expect revenue in the range of $1.64 billion to $1.675 billion. This represents a decline of 4.5% to a decline of 2.5% for both reported and core revenue. This is on top of a tough compare of 13% growth last year. Adjusting for the China deferral in Q3 of last year would add roughly 200 basis points to both reported and core growth in the quarter. Currency and M&A impact in Q3 are minimal, and are expected to offset each other. Third quarter non-GAAP earnings per share are expected to be between $1.36 and $1.38, representing growth of 1.5% to 3% versus the prior year. We are pleased with the first half performance, and while we are facing a more difficult market environment than we were estimating a quarter ago, I am confident that our team will continue to deliver for our customers. Thanks for being on the call. And now I'll turn over things back to Mike for some closing comments before we take your questions. Mike?

Mullen: Thanks, Bob. During Q4 '22 call in November, I shared with you that I believe Agilent has the right growth strategies, the right team and right culture to continue delivering strong above-market results. My belief remains unchanged. Our customers know we are reliable, resilient and extremely quick in reacting to meet their needs. The Agilent team continues to work hard to earn their trust. While the near-term outlook points to continuing challenges in the market, we remain confident in the long-term growth prospects in our end markets and our ability to continue to grow faster than the market. As a trusted partner that our customers know they can rely on, despite the current market environment, I remain confident in our ability to deliver on our shareholder value creation model. Our core values and approach haven't changed. Our focus on investing for growth, providing the industry's best customer support, our innovation prowess and being a great place for our team to work with a differentiated company culture are here to stay. They remain Agilent's formula for long-term success. Thank you. And now to you, Parmeet, to lead the question-and-answer session. Parmeet?

Couillard: Mike, it would be helpful if you kind of unpack what you're seeing in terms of instrument demand between, let's say, mid to large pharma relative to smaller biotech. Some of your peers have talked about maybe that large pharma budget just being delayed coming back later in the year. Curious what you're embedding in kind of your outlook and how you're bringing those two customer bases?

Mullen: Sure. Happy to do so, Brandon. So I think there are differences between the two sectors. The small biotech is pretty much shut down. We've seen real efforts on cash conservation as they've been dealing with the financing challenges of less venture capital money out there, banking crises and limited access to the IPO market. But on the medium-sized and large pharma companies, we still see a very -- actually, an increasing level of conservatism coming from new capital investments, particularly as it relates to our business in instruments. You can make a case that perhaps, there'll be a year-end budget flush, if customers go to try to spend their year-end money that they're not spending now. We're not assuming that because all we can really comment on right now is what we're seeing today. We're not giving any indications that that situation will change. And I think what remains to be seen is, I think it's going to be a CEO/CFO decision at our larger pharma companies about how they'll handle their full year budgets. And again, that relates primarily to the instrument side of our business. As we commented in our prepared remarks, consumables and services continued -- demand continued quite strong in these marketplaces. Anything else to add to that?

Mahon: Yes. Just to build on what Mike is saying. Obviously, we've got -- we've been looking at discretionary spend, things like travel but also demand related. If there's not demand, we're not going to spend the same level of marketing funds as an example. And we continue to really drive productivity. We talked about that at the very beginning of the year around productivity in our workforce, and we'll continue to do that, making sure that we don't get ahead of ourselves in terms of adding more people relative to the business.

Waldman: Mike, curious what year-over-year orders were in LC and mass spec? Were orders there down kind of in the mid-teens range? And then within large pharma, I think you mentioned the funnel remains healthy, but it's just taking longer to close deals. I guess based on conversations with key accounts recently, anything you can point to that gives you confidence that the slower orders here are more reflecting delays in the purchasing process as opposed to just tighter budgets and maybe lapse reprioritize the capital to other instrument categories, maybe outside of LCMS?

Mullen: Yes, I want to tag team with Padraig on this, and then I'll go back to the order question to Bob. But yes, I mean, what we're hearing or I heard directly is customers aren't cutting their budgets. And I happened to be in Europe last month at our demo facility in Vauban, Germany. It's fully booked for the next three months. I mean -- so there's a lot of interest, a lot of interest in Agilent solutions. We just can't get the PEOs through their approval process inside their companies. And that's why we think it's transitory, although we have to acknowledge what we're seeing today, and that's reflective of the revised guide for the second half.

Mahon: Thanks, Mike, and good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I will provide some additional details on revenue in the quarter as well as take you through the income statement and other key financial metrics. I'll then finish up with our updated guidance for the full year and our fourth quarter outlook. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. Q3 revenue was $1.67 billion, a decline of 2.3% core and down 2.7% on a reported basis. This compares with 13.2% core growth last year. Currency was a 0.5 point headwind while M&A contribution was minimal. As you may recall, Q3 of last year benefited from roughly $35 million in revenue deferred from the second quarter as we ramp back up from the Shanghai shutdown in China. Accounting for this, our Q3 core growth would be roughly flat versus a year ago. As Mike mentioned, Pharma, our largest end market, declined 8%. This is in line with our reduced expectations coming out of Q2 with underperformance in China, offset by better performance in the rest of the world. The Chemicals and Advanced Materials market was down 3% off a very tough 22% compare, but dollar-wise was flat sequentially. The academia and government market was up 5% and with all regions showing growth except the Americas, which was flat. Our business in the diagnostics and clinical market grew 3%, driven by high single-digit growth in pathology, partially offset by genomics weakness. The environmental and forensics business grew 2%, driven by double-digit growth in the Americas and Europe. The growth was generated by the build-out of water infrastructure projects and an expansion of funding for PFAS-related activities. The food market grew 1% based on strength in Asia outside of China and mid-single-digit growth in Europe, driven by new food testing regulations. On a geographic basis, while China underperformed, the Americas and the rest of Asia were better than expected, while Europe was in line with our expectations. Moving down the P&L. Third quarter gross margin was 56.3%, down 10 basis points from a year ago. Like last quarter, this was largely due to the product and services mix, and pricing was slightly better than our expectations. Below gross margin, the expense reduction actions we initiated in the second quarter helped strengthen operating margins. We also benefited from a reduction in variable pay expenses. As Mike mentioned, margins were 29.3%, up 180 basis points from last year. Below the line, our interest income was higher than planned, while our tax rate was 13.75% and we had 295 million diluted shares outstanding. Putting it all together, Q3 earnings per share were $1.43, up 7% from a year ago, a very good result given declining revenue. Now let me turn to cash flow and the balance sheet. I continue to be pleased with our cash flow generation this year. Cash flow from operations was $562 million in the quarter, and is $1.3 billion year-to-date. In Q3, we invested $81 million in capital expenditures, totaling $214 million year-to-date, effectively flat year-on-year as we continue to optimize our CapEx spending. Given the strong year-to-date results, we are increasing our free cash flow forecast for the year to $1.2 billion, comprised of operating cash flow of $1.5 billion and CapEx of $300 million. This is an increase of $250 million from the midpoint of our previous guidance. Despite the challenging macroeconomic conditions, our balanced capital allocation strategy is intact. During the quarter, we returned $401 million to shareholders. $66 million through dividends and repurchase shares worth $335 million. This ongoing balanced approach to capital deployment is another example of the confidence we have in our team and our belief in the long-term strength of our markets. Before getting into the revised full year outlook, I want to mention we have taken a $291 million pretax charge in Q3 associated with the decision to shut down the Resolution Bioscience business. This charge, which is excluded from non-GAAP results, includes an impairment write-down along with charges associated with the wind-down and exit of the business. We expect the wind down to continue through Q4 and into early FY '24. Now to the revised outlook for the year in Q4. Given the more challenging macroeconomic environment we are seeing, particularly in China, we now expect full year revenue to be in the range of $6.80 billion to $6.85 billion. This represents a decline of 0.7% to flat on a reported basis and core growth of 0.8% to 1.5%. This is a core growth reduction of 260 basis points from the midpoint of our last guide. Roughly 85% of the change is related to reduced expectations in China while the remainder is due to some incremental cautiousness from our customers on CapEx spend as well as softness in genomics and the shutdown of Resolution Bioscience. As Mike said earlier, we are not assuming any incremental stimulus in China or any material year-end budget flush in these revised projections. Given the large change in China, I wanted to provide some additional perspective on how we are forecasting the rest of the year, recognizing that the market continues to be very dynamic. To provide some context, in Q3 through June, our business in China was tracking to a mid-single-digit decline in revenue, which was in line with our expectations. However, in July, we saw a further deterioration in China, resulting in the 17% decline for the quarter. And while the Q3 decline in China was centered in pharma, which was down 30%, we did see weakness in the other end markets as well. We expect the conditions we've seen in July to persist in China for Q4. In addition, we are facing our most difficult quarterly compare in China, where we grew 44% in Q4 of last year. We are now expecting Q4 to decline in the mid-30s year-on-year. For the full year, we are expecting China to decline mid-single digits versus growing mid-single digits. With the change in revenue, we now expect full year fiscal 2023 non-GAAP earnings per share to be between $5.40 and $5.43, representing leveraged earnings growth of 3% to 4% and roughly 6% to 7% growth net of currency. The change in full year guide results in Q4 revenue being in the range of $1.655 billion to $1.705 billion. This represents a decline of 8% to 10.5% on a reported basis and a decline of 9.5% to 12% on a core basis. The recovery last year in Q4 of the remaining revenue deferred from the Shanghai Q2 shutdown negatively impacts the year-on-year results by roughly 1 point. In fourth quarter, non-GAAP earnings per share are expected to be between $1.33 and $1.36. Thanks for being on the call. And now I will turn things back over to Mike for some closing comments before taking your questions. Mike?

Mullen: Thanks, Bob. While today's macroenvironment is challenged for new instrument purchases, we remain confident in the long-term growth prospects of our end markets, the diversification of our business and in our proven ability to grow faster than the market. I'd like to share a few examples why my confidence remains intact despite near-term challenges. In Pharma, our largest end market, innovation and advance of medicines continue with new therapeutics flowing into the market. The demographic drivers of this market are on our side, a growing global population that expects access to health care and extending life expectancy to be key priorities from their governments. Our market-leading solutions are critical to innovation behind new therapeutics and ensuring the safety and quality of on-market drugs. In the applied markets, growing PFAS testing and the electrical vehicle transition are here to stay, action in new opportunities for growth. Everyone wants to have a safer water to drink, food to eat and air to breathe and the search for and production of more sustainable materials and energy sources remains a global priority. Agilent is a diversified leader in a unique position to help our customers drive their solutions. We remain a trusted partner, our customers though they can rely on in both good and challenging times. Our combination of leading instrumentation and world-class customer support is a long-term competitive advantage. At the heart of this long-term competitive advantage is the Agilent team and the One Agilent culture. You see this reflected in a recent recognition on Glassdoor and in being named A Great Place to Work in all 27 countries and territories around the world where we qualify for certification. We have a company mission focused on advancing the quality of life. To learn more about this, I would encourage you to review the latest addition of the ESG report that we issued last month. We have proactively managed the company through the short term, always with an eye towards our customers and in the long term. We have been proactive in managing our business to drive leveraged earnings but not at the expense of customer satisfaction and future growth. Yes, these are challenging times, but we have the team, the strategy and the right culture that would deliver long-term success. Thank you for joining us today. And now over to you, Parmeet, to lead the question-and-answer session. Parmeet?

Sykes: Hi. Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. I thought maybe I'd start just with China, sort of a high-level question. You guys talked about sort of the transitory impact of the current environment. You mentioned pharma. Could you kind of extend those comments to China? Do you think it's more cyclical versus structural? Are there competitive issues that you're facing or just your outlook on that region?

Mullen: Thanks, Parmeet, and thanks, everyone, for joining our call today. Before we get into discussing our results and outlook, I want to mention that we're joined today by Padraig McDonnell, President of the Agilent CrossLab Group; and Sam Raha, President of the Agilent Diagnostics and Genomics Group. We're also joined on this call for the first time by Phil Binns, President of the Agilent Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group. Phil’s name may be new to some of you, but he's well-known at Agilent and in the industry. Phil has been with us for more than 13 years, coming over with the Varian acquisition and overseeing our market leading spectroscopy business. We’re extremely pleased to have someone with Phil’s knowledge, experience and proven leadership strength heading up our LSAG business. In his short time in the role, we’ve already seen Phil add tremendous value as a member of our senior leadership team. Welcome, Phil. Now onto our fourth quarter results. The Agilent team once again continued to perform well under challenging market conditions. Revenue of $1.69 billion declined 9.7% core after increasing 17.5% last year. This is at the high end of our guidance. Our proactive approach to managing our cost structure in this market environment helped us deliver healthy fourth quarter operating margins of 27.8%. Q4 earnings per share of $1.38 exceeded our guidance. While this was a decline of 10%, it comes against a tough compare last year when EPS grew 26%. While the market continues to be challenging, we believe we are starting to see signs of stabilization. As an encouraging data point, for the quarter our book-to-bill ratio was 1 for the company and greater than 1 for our LSAG instruments. Let’s take a closer look at our Q4 performance, starting with our regional results. During the quarter, while down year-on-year, we delivered sequential growth except for China, as expected. In China, our business declined 31% year-on-year after growing 44% in Q4 last year. While China was down sequentially, these results were very much in line with our expectations. And the year-on-year monthly performance improved slightly as the quarter progressed. In addition, orders were slightly higher than revenue for the quarter. While it is too early to call these two data points a trend, we see this as an encouraging sign of potential stabilization. In late September, I traveled to China for the first time since the COVID outbreak to meet with the Agilent team, key customers, and government officials. I was reminded of both the sheer size of the Chinese economy and our market there. I saw first-hand the work being done to bolster economic activity in the near-term and create an environment that will support continued growth into the future. I remain convinced China will continue to play an important role in life sciences and I’m confident that the China market will return to growth. In looking at our largest end market, pharma declined 14% driven by continued caution among customers on capital expenditures for new instruments. Within pharma, biopharma performed better than small molecule. Geographically, our biopharma business outside of China grew high-single digits. Looking at our performance by business unit, the Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group delivered revenue of $928 million, down 18% core versus a tough compare last year of up 22%. Customers continue to hold off on capital expenditures, particularly in the pharma segment of LSAG’s business, which declined in the high 20% range. This is against growth in the low 20s last year. On the other hand, we continue to see strong customer demand and growth in our PFAS solutions, as well as continued strength in the advanced materials segment. These are two secular trends we’ve highlighted before and we remain optimistic about future growth in these market segments. While the market environment remains challenged, we continue to innovate and provide unique solutions for our customers. The new products we launched in June at ASMS, in particular the 6595 LC triple quad, which is focused on key applications like PFAS, continue to generate positive customer interest and new orders. We’re also bringing innovative new solutions for customers across the biopharma value chain. We have installed a number of our online UHPLC systems with large biopharma companies. The systems are easy-to-use, reliable, and deliver significant value by providing fully automated analysis of critical quality attributes and allowing real time decision making outside the lab. The Agilent CrossLab Group posted revenue of $404 million, up 4% core and 6% on a reported basis. ACG delivered growth across all end-markets, and in all regions except China. The contract services business was up double-digits, offset by the services associated with new instrument placements. Our strategy of increasing the connect rate continues to pay off. In the quarter, the contract services business represented 65% of ACG revenue, a number that has grown nicely over the years. The Diagnostics and Genomics Group delivered revenue of $356 million, flat on a core basis and up 1% reported. DGG’s results were led by the pathology and NASD businesses, which both delivered low double-digit growth. These strong results were offset by the continued market challenges in genomics in both consumables and instruments. Our NASD portfolio and capacity expansion are continuing as planned. We’re confident in the long-term growth prospects for the markets we serve. Before I finish covering DGG, I want to thank Sam Raha for his contributions over the years and for helping us build a strong foundation for the DGG business. I wish Sam well. In addition to these business group highlights, during the quarter we were recognized for our commitment to sustainability. Agilent’s near and long-term targets for reaching net-zero greenhouse gas emissions have been approved by the highly regarded Science Based Targets initiative. A year ago, we entered 2023 sharing a view of economic and industry uncertainty, as we guided for moderating growth in the second half of 2023. We had not anticipated, however, the significance of the market headwinds the industry eventually faced, particularly in the pharma market and China. Despite the challenging market conditions, we delivered full year revenue of $6.83 billion, growing 1.5% core. While our full-year growth was lower than initially expected, we met or exceeded every quarterly guidance range we provided, a solid testament to the team’s execution ability. Including FY23 results, our 4-year compound annual growth rate is 7%. This is at the high end of our long-term growth guidance. In FY23, we delivered operating margins of 27.4%. This is up 30 basis points this year and up more than 400 basis points in the last four years. Earnings per share of $5.44 are up 4%, delivering leveraged earnings growth for the year. Our 4-year compound annual growth rate for EPS is 15%. Looking back, 2023 was a challenging year. What I’m particularly proud of is the Agilent team’s ability to quickly pivot and take action to address these challenges while staying relentlessly focused on our customers. While we’ve worked to significantly reduce expenses, Agilent’s customer satisfaction ratings remain at all-time highs. At the same time, our employee engagement continues to be excellent as we achieved a number of best employer awards over the last year. All of this helped us deliver another year of leveraged earnings in an extremely difficult market environment. Before turning it over to Bob for more details, I want to provide some high-level perspective on FY24 and beyond. For 2024, we anticipate a slow, but steady recovery, throughout the year. In our initial outlook, at the high end of our guidance we expect revenues to return to growth. At the same time, our range for EPS in the year ahead has us again delivering leveraged EPS growth. As we look ahead, we remain convinced the market challenges being faced by the industry today are transient. Our end markets are powered by investments in improving the human condition. The pace of science, innovation and discovery continues to increase, which will fuel further growth. We remain focused on winning in the marketplace. Our differentiated products, services and most importantly our One Agilent team, are all essential to the success of our customers. We are well-positioned for long-term growth. Bob will now share more detail on the quarter and the year, along with more specifics on our initial view for fiscal 2024 and

Mahon: Thanks Mike, and good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I will provide some additional details on revenue in the quarter and the year, as well as take you through the income statement and other key financial metrics. I’ll then finish up with our guidance for fiscal year 2024 and the first quarter. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. Agilent finished the fourth quarter with core growth at the top end of guidance and EPS exceeding our expectations as we executed well against challenging macroeconomic conditions. Q4 revenue was $1.69 billion, down 9.7% core and 8.7% on a reported basis. This is after growing 17.5% in Q4 last year, when we benefitted from the recovery from the Shanghai shutdown in Q2 of last year. This created an estimated 1 point of headwind in the year-on-year results this quarter. As expected, we saw weakness in capital purchases in LSAG with the biggest impact in our China business. Now, I’d like to share additional detail on our end markets for the quarter. Revenue in our largest market pharma, declined 14%, versus 20% growth in Q4 last year. BioPharma declined 2% while small molecule was down 23%. However, biopharma ex-China was up 7% in the quarter and grew solidly for the year. And while small molecule was down, the decline was most pronounced in China. And outside China, small molecule was up sequentially in the quarter. Chemicals and advanced materials declined 11% versus growth of 27% last year, while flat sequentially. Our chemicals and energy subsegments were down 15% while advanced materials were down roughly 2% globally and up 4% in the Americas and Europe combined. The food market was down low double digits against a tough 20% growth comparison last year. High single digit growth in the Americas was offset by declines in all other regions. In the Americas, PFAS testing is emerging as an important growth area in food testing, helping drive the high single digit growth. We expect testing for PFAS chemicals will continue to be a growth driver across multiple end markets over time. The environmental and forensics market declined 3% versus 18% growth last year. Similar to the food market, the Americas region continues to experience strong growth, up double digits driven by PFAS. This strong performance was primarily offset by softness in China, which was down year-on-year, but up slightly on a sequential basis. Our business in the diagnostics and clinical market declined 4%. While we delivered low double-digit growth in our pathology-related businesses, it was more than offset by continued weakness in genomics. The academia and government market was down low single digits with strength in the Americas driven by government funding offset by weakness in China and Europe. Results were pressured across all geographies in the quarter. As Mike mentioned, China was down 31% year-on-year after growing 44% in Q4 of last year, in line with our expectations coming into the quarter. The rest of Asia was down mid-single digits and both the Americas and Europe declined low single digits in the quarter. Before turning to the rest of the P&L, I’d like to quickly summarize some full year highlights by end market and geography. From an end market perspective, all markets grew low to mid-single digits for the year except for pharma, which was down 2% globally. In addition, all geographies grew, except China which was down 5%. Back to the P&L for the quarter. Despite the revenue declines, our team continues to execute at a very high level. Fourth quarter gross margin was 55.8%, and our operating margin was a healthy 27.8% in Q4, which was slightly better than our internal expectations. Below the line, we benefitted from stronger than expected cash flow generating incremental interest income in the quarter. Our tax rate was 13.75% and we had 293 million diluted shares outstanding, both as expected. Putting it all together, earnings per share were $1.38 for the quarter, exceeding our expectations, albeit down 10% from a year ago when EPS grew 26%. As Mike mentioned, our Q4 results capped a year where we grew 1.5% core on the topline, increased operating margins by 30 basis points and grew EPS by 4%, while overcoming a couple of points of currency headwinds. This is a real statement on the team’s ability to quickly adapt to market changes while still delivering leveraged earnings growth. Turning to cash flow and the balance sheet, I’m incredibly proud of the Agilent team as Q4 continued a string of very strong quarterly cash flow results. In Q4, we generated operating cash flow of $516 million, well over 100% of adjusted net income, and invested $84 million in capital expenditures. CapEx spending is driven by our ongoing NASD capacity expansion, which remains on track. For the year, we delivered $1.5 billion in free cash flow, an increase of 44% over last year. Our balance sheet continues to remain healthy as we end the fiscal year with a net leverage ratio of 0.6 times. With the current challenges in the market, it is great to be a company with a fortress balance sheet and strong cash flow. In the quarter, we paid out $66 million in dividends and spent $80 million to repurchase shares. And for the year, we returned $840 million to shareholders through $265 million in dividends and $575 million in share repurchases. Looking forward, you may have also seen that we recently announced a 5% increase in our quarterly dividend providing another source of value to our shareholders. It’s worth noting that we have increased our dividend every year since we first began issuing them in 2012. Now, let’s move on to our outlook for the upcoming fiscal year and first quarter. As Mike stated, we expect to see a slow but steady recovery throughout fiscal 2024. However, we also acknowledge the continued market uncertainty, high interest rates, volatile exchange rates and depressed capital spending. Like several of our peers, we expect the markets to be down slightly for the year, while we expect to perform better. Given the expected slower market conditions, we have taken additional steps to adjust our cost structure. Incorporated into our guidance is roughly $175 million of cost savings. Given the significance, I want to provide a little more detail on these actions. Roughly 30% of the savings are related to portfolio optimization decisions we have taken in DGG, the largest of which was the exit of the Resolution Biosciences business. Another 25% is related to materials and logistics cost savings as well as optimizing our real estate footprint, with the remaining savings tied to continued reductions in discretionary spend and optimizing our workforce. Along with these actions, we have taken a $46 million charge for restructuring and other related costs in our Q4 GAAP results. These reductions, while difficult, are necessary to ensure we continue to fund our most critical investments as well as fund the variable compensation resets from this year. These actions help ensure the company delivers leveraged earnings growth in FY24 and will enable us to emerge even stronger when our markets inevitably return to their long-term growth rates. As Mike noted earlier, we exited Q4 with some potential signs of stabilization with a book to bill ratio of 1 for the company and greater than 1 for LSAG instruments. While this is positive, we are going to be prudent in our initial guidance. For the full year guide, we expect revenue in the range of $6.71 billion to $6.81 billion. This represents a core growth range from a slight decline of 0.5% at the low end to 1 point of growth at the high end. Currency is a headwind of 1.2 points while M&A is also a slight headwind of 10 basis points related to Resolution Bioscience. On a reported basis, we are expecting a decline in the range of 1.8% to 0.3% year-on-year. From a geographic perspective, we expect modest growth in the Americas and Europe. While we expect to see recovery during the year in China, our initial view is it will still decline for the full year. From a business group perspective, we expect growth in both DGG and ACG, while LSAG instruments will still be pressured. In terms of phasing, we expect the first half of FY24 to look similar to the second half of FY23, with growth in the second half of next year. We are projecting modest operating margin expansion for the year. Below the line, we expect interest income and expense to offset each other, a tax rate of 13.5%, and 293 million shares outstanding. Fiscal 2024 non-GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $5.44 to $5.55. This range represents flat to 2% growth versus FY23. From a cash flow perspective, we expect another robust year. We are expecting roughly $1.6 billion in operating cash flow and $400 million in CapEx as spending increases on NASD’s Train C and D expansions. Looking to Q1 2024, we expect revenue in the range of $1.555 billion to $1.605 billion. This represents a core decline of 11.3% to 8.5% with currency and M&A having a minimal impact. At the midpoint, we are expecting growth that resembles what we just delivered in Q4 and assumes no significant budget flush during the end of this calendar year. This is against another difficult comp of 10% growth in Q1 of last year. First quarter 2024 non-GAAP earnings per share are expected to be between $1.20 and $1.23 as the cost savings fully ramp through the quarter. As Mike indicated, while we are expecting low growth in 2024, we remain optimistic about the future of our markets and our long-term prospects. Our business remains very profitable and healthy, and I know we will come out stronger as a company when market growth returns. And now I will turn the floor back over to Parmeet for your questions. Parmeet?

Kumar: And some helpful comments here. Mike, maybe starting with those book-to-bill comments here. Overall company 1 turn LSAG instrumentation looks like it's turned. Curious what those book-to-bill numbers for ex-China? And if instrumentation has turned, that Q1 guidance, comps get easier. Why is Q1 assuming no benefit from this turn in instrumentation?

Donnelly: That's helpful. Bob. And maybe, Bob, just on the margin side, helpful to hear you talk through a few of the different moving pieces. It sounds like some cost savings in DGG, among others. I guess can you just give a bit more color on kind of the moving pieces, where you're pulling levers, the ability to take out some additional costs to hit these margin numbers. Obviously, you talked about margins being up a bit. I think there are some headwinds like incentive comp, things like that. So maybe just talk about the gives and takes there and confidence in terms of some of the cost outs.

Mahon: Yes, that's a great insight there, Patrick. Yes, because we do have some add backs, I would say that -- so don't take that $175 million and drop it to the bottom line because we have some resets, I would say roughly half of that is kind of a reset between our sales comp and variable pay. If we think about it is really across the P&L, the biggest piece actually is in DGG with the exit of the Res Bio business, but we've also taken some tough decisions in other product lines to streamline the portfolio there. And I would say roughly a little over 30% of that is associated with that. The other 25% is really within our COGS. Our OFS team has done a phenomenal job of really kind of leaning into reducing our costs around logistics and material costs. And then I talked about the site consolidation as well, which will show up and down the P&L. So we've taken a look at our real estate footprint and have actually closed several smaller sites between -- around the world really. And then the final piece is really kind of infrastructure optimization, which would be discretionary spend but then also headcount reductions that would be focused on areas where we've rightsized it to the demand.

Mullen: And Patrick, this is Mike, I stated about the confidence about the growth recovery. I think when it comes to hitting the $175 million, high degree of confidence, we control this 100%, and we'll deliver on this.

Vatnsdal: Yes. No, that's helpful color. And then I just want to dig a little bit more on your comments around next year. So you mentioned that you expect the first half to be similar to what you're seeing in the back half of this year. So I guess, can you just walk us through in a little bit more detail what exactly you mean by that? Should we be expecting similarities from an organic growth perspective? Or are you really talking about more from a revenue dollar standpoint. And then same type of question on the trajectory of the rebound on margins and EPS next year. Should we expect kind of that similar ramp given the cost dynamic as well?

Mahon: Yes. I think if -- I'll try to answer all that in short order, Rachel. As we think about the first half of the year, yes, we think that we -- as we look at our business and look at that kind of book-to-bill, we've kind of troughed in Q2. Q3, I think we mentioned actually was a little better. It was less than -- still less than 1 and then Q4 continue to improve. And our expectation is that, that kind of performance will continue. Now we're going up against difficult comps when we were actually bleeding down our inventory. And that particularly happened in Q1 and Q2 of last year as we were talking about it. And so I would expect us to have the trough of '24 be in Q1, Q2 being a little better and then growing out of that as we benefit from the easier compares. And I would expect our P&L and the EPS to look very similar to that. Q1, we are -- we've taken most of the actions they will have all been taken in the first quarter, but they won't have a full quarter. And so we'll have full quarters of the cost savings in Q2 through Q4. And so as that business kind of improves as the business improves, we'll get more and more leverage on the bottom line.

Bruin: So can we talk a little bit about pharma? That market was up and down all year, not a lot of visibility. Are you seeing some of the orders that were sort of stuck in the funnel starting to come loose, right? I mean, how are you sort of looking at the pharma market going forward?

Waldman: Maybe one for Bob and then one for Mike. Bob, maybe circling back on Derik's question, I wondered if you could provide more context on the forecasting process this round or the puts and takes that went into the organic guide. Could you take a step back, were there segments in the business that were like decelerating or slowing as you went into the guide or maybe areas where you're still trying to find bottom? And if so, how did you expect that in the guide?

Mahon: Yes. Obviously, this year has been one for the ages in terms of being able to try to manage the forecasting. And so we've taken a number of different angles at it to look at it. So not only growth rates, which I think is the focus here, but also actually if you looked at it on a sequential basis and look at the actual dollars, I think that that's probably more instructive, particularly as we were looking at the bleeding of the inventory. I would say what we've seen over the last couple of quarters is that signs of stabilization. There are always puts and takes across the various businesses. And we think that we've tried to do that. We've built in feedback based on the field's projections, the funnel that Mike and Padraig talked about and then an assumption around the conversion of those funnels. And we haven't seen the funnels slow down. There's still modest growth, and we're starting to see the slowing of the elongation. I'm not saying that it's stopped or accelerated in terms of the purchase but we are starting to see that slowing and you're actually seeing that in that book to bill. And when we look at the orders on a sequential basis, we're starting to see that kind of stabilization as well. And so that's kind of how we're looking at continuing to go forward. if you kind of just built that going into next year, you would start seeing a challenging first half and then better performance in the second half.

Waldman: Yes, that's helpful. And that was actually going to be my follow-up. And maybe I don't know, Bob or Mike, if you want to take it. I was curious if you could maybe quantify where the funnel stands entering '24 versus maybe where it typically is entering the year? And just how correlative or how much do you think it is a predictor of near-term demand? I mean is that -- is better funnel conversion at all kind of part of what drives the improvement as you progress through the year?

Donnell: Thank you, Mike. I'm honored to be able to follow you as Agilent's next CEO and I'm grateful for your support throughout my career and during this transition. You have made a significant impact on Agilent, our customers and our team. I'd also like to welcome Angelica Riemann to this call. After leading our services division for the last 2.5 years, I can tell you she has the experience and the skill set to continue evolving ACG to align with the growing opportunities that the business has demonstrated in supporting the broad installed base and our enterprise customers. Expect to see continued great things ahead from Angelica and ACG. I've had the pleasure of meeting some of you on this call and I look forward to meeting and working with you all in the future. Agilent has a compelling story to tell and I'm excited by the possibilities that lie in front of us as we help our customers bring great signs to life.

Mullen: Thanks, Padraig. For today's call, I will take lead, covering the overview of our financial results, while next quarter, Padraig will take on these duties as the new CEO. Now, on to the Q1 results. We are pleased with the start of the year. The Agilent team continues its strong execution in a challenging market environment. The first quarter provided further evidence of our team's capabilities with revenue coming in better than expected at $1.66 billion. This represents a decline of 6.4% against a tough compare of 10% growth in Q1 of last year. The better-than-expected top line results and disciplined cost management drove higher-than-expected earnings per share of $1.29 down 6% from Q1 last year. Given the solid Q1 results and our continued view is slow but steady recovery throughout the year, we are maintaining our full year outlook that we shared with you in November. Key to our Q1 performance was the ongoing sequential stabilization we experienced in China and secular growth drivers in applied markets globally. From an end market perspective, our total pharma business is down 12% which was in line with our expectations. This falls 11% increase in the first quarter last year. While declining overall against a very strong Q1 of last year, our applied end markets were more resilient than expected and show sequential growth from the fourth quarter. In these markets, PFAS Solutions and Advanced Materials, including batteries and semiconductors were high bits for us. Geographically, both China and Europe finished Q1 better than expected, while revenue for the Americas was in line with expectations. Looking at performance by business unit, the Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group delivered revenues of $846 million and down 11%. This is against a difficult compare of 10% growth last year. While still too early to call an overall market recovery, results were better than expected. Our diversified portfolio and broad end market coverage helped drive the performance. We continue to experience a conservative environment for capital spending. But are better than expected, Q1 results were driven by consumables which grew mid-single digits, China and a better-than-expected performance in applied markets. During the quarter, we also completed the expansion of our Shanghai manufacturing facility as we continue to take steps to ensure our long-term leadership in China. We also made our first customer shipments for Agilent's newly released LC/MS offerings. Our latest highest sensitivity triple quad, the 6495D enables expanded and enhanced workflows, including for PFAS. This, in addition to Revident, the first of a new generation of LC/Q-TOF systems that combine a new architecture with enhanced instrument intelligence for maximize operation time and productivity. The Agilent CrossLab Group posted revenue of $405 million. This is up 5% with growth across all regions except China. Our contracts business led the way with double-digit growth overall, led by strength in enterprise service contracts. This performance highlights the continued strength and resiliency of our business. Connect rates for both services and consumables continue to improve. This is a result of our focused strategy to deliver end-to-end customer value while also building a larger recurring revenue business. The Diagnostics and Genomics Group delivered revenue of $407 million, down 6% core. Our pathology-related businesses and our NGS QC portfolio grew mid-single digits which was more than offset by declines in NGS chemistries and NASD. NASD declined low double digits as expected. This is because a very tough compare of 22% growth driven by significant volume last year from a single commercial program. We continue to be encouraged with our long-term prospects due to the increasing number of programs across a range of indications many of them target large patient populations. The DGG team continues to innovate and deliver differentiated solutions for our customers. In the quarter, we induced a new ProteoAnalyzer system. The new platform simplifies and improves the efficiency of analyzing complex protein mixtures. And processes that are central to analytical workflows across the pharma, biotech, food analysis and academia sectors. From an overall Agilent perspective, we recently achieved World Economic Forum recognition for operations of Waldbronn, Germany. This site was named a Global Lighthouse for implementing innovation that boost productivity, output and quality. This marks the second Global Lighthouse award for us after seeing the recognition for our Singapore facility two years ago. Agilent is the only life science tools company to be recognized as a Global Lighthouse. Agilent recently achieved a top 5 ranking in the Barron's list of 100 most sustainable companies. In addition, we are included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index globally and in North America for the ninth year in a row. Looking ahead, we expect the current market environment to persist through the first half, we expect a slow and steady improvement in the second half of the year. We will continue taking actions that will make us stronger and position us well for the future. We will maintain our approach to prioritize investing for growth with a focus on execution and driving productivity. Our better-than-expected Q1 results and my confidence the Agilent team reinforced our view for the full year. Bob will now provide the details on our results as well as our outlook for Q2. After Bob's comments,

Mahon: Thanks, Mike and good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I'll provide some additional details on revenue in the quarter, as well as take you through the income statement and other key financial metrics. I'll then finish up with our second quarter guidance. Q1 revenue was $1.66 billion, a decline of 6.4% core. On a reported basis, currency added 0.9 percentage points, while M&A had a negative impact of 0.1%, resulting in a reported decline of 5.6%. And overall, orders were greater than revenue in Q1 as expected. As Mike mentioned, pharma, our largest end market declined 12%. Within pharma, biopharma declined low single digits but grew low single digits outside China, bolstered by strength in services and consumables. Small molecule was down high teens in the quarter with softness globally. The chemical and advanced materials market was down 4% off a very tough comparison of 14% growth last year. We saw broad resilience in advanced materials with a low single-digit increase year-on-year as well as growth sequentially. Given the extremely tough compare of high 20s growth last year, these are impressive results. As expected, the chemical side saw a decline. The academia and government market was up 2%. The growth in this market reflects the stability of academic funding and lab activity. Our business in the diagnostics and clinical market declined 5%, mid-single-digit growth in pathology was more than offset by continued headwinds in genomics, cell analysis and LC and LC/MS. The environmental and forensics market declined 1% after growing 12% in Q1 of last year. We continue to see new regulations around the world driving PFAS testing. Europe grew mid-single digits, while China and the Americas were down low single digits. Americas faced a difficult compare of low 30s growth last year. The food market declined 3% but was up low single digits, excluding China. On a geographic basis, as Mike mentioned, both China and Europe exceeded our expectations while the Americas were in line with our expectations. China was down 9% and showed a sequential increase over last quarter which was much better than expectations. China benefited from continued stabilization and a bigger-than-expected Lunar New Year impact as some customers pulled forward incremental demand from Q2. We estimate the pull-forward impact to be roughly $15 million or 5% of China's revenue in the quarter. Even adjusting for this impact, China outperformed. Europe was down 4% year-on-year after growing 10% last year and was up mid-single digits sequentially. This was driven by continued strong demand for our ACG services, offset by muted demand in pharma and expected softness in chemicals. In the Americas, revenue was down 8% due to declines in pharma and the softness in NASD and NGS chemistries. Moving down the P&L. First quarter gross margin was 56.0% down 50 basis points from a year ago as productivity and cost savings were offset by lower demand and mix. Our operating margin of 25.8% was down year-over-year as expected. Our ongoing cost savings initiatives are delivering as planned. Below the line, we benefited from greater-than-expected interest income in the quarter, driven by nice work from our treasury team, coupled with very strong cash flow. Our tax rate was 13.5% and we had 294 million diluted shares outstanding. Putting it all together, Q1 earnings per share were $1.29, down 6% from a year ago and ahead of our expectations. Now, let me turn to cash flow and the balance sheet. I continue to be very pleased with our cash flow generation. Operating cash flow was $485 million in the quarter, significantly above last year. In Q1, we invested $90 million in capital expenditures as we continue our planned NASD expansion. And during the quarter, we returned $69 million to shareholders through dividends. Although no shares were repurchased during the quarter, we expect to catch up on our anti-dilutive share repurchasing for the remainder of the year. In Q2, we expect a minimum of $180 million to be repurchased. All in all, we had a good start to the year. And as Mike mentioned, it reinforces our confidence in the full year guide we provided in November. Now, to our guidance for the second quarter. We expect Q2 revenue will be in the range of $1.56 billion to $1.59 billion. This represents a decline of 9.1% to 7.4% on a reported basis and a decline of 8.4% to 6.7% on a core basis against 9% growth last year. Currency and M&A combined are a headwind of 70 basis points. Our Q2 guidance also reflects the $15 million impact of the Q1 pull forward in China I mentioned earlier. Second quarter non-GAAP earnings per share expected to be between $1.17 and $1.20. Before turning back over to Mike, I just want to express my thanks to Mike and to congratulate Padraig. Mike, it has been a real pleasure to work with you. While there have been many ups and downs in the markets these past few years, one thing I knew I could always count on is your steady leadership and strong partnership. And Padraig, congratulations again. I'm really looking forward to working with you. And now, I'll turn things back over to Mike. Mike?

Couillard: So the chemical and advanced materials business, we actually performed a little better than we were expecting. Obviously, you're still seeing some headwinds in the chemical side. Just give us your state of the union there, what you're seeing from a macro's perspective and kind of outlook for that business moving into the second half look like?

Mullen: Yes. So I'll do a tag team on this with Padraig. So as you may recall, we've talked earlier this year about these secular growth drivers in the applied markets. And we saw that pretty much across the globe. And I think what we're seeing again is the investments being made in advanced materials relative to the semiconductor supply chain and also the fab is driving productivity. We're seeing continued investment relative to battery, battery development, QA/QC. And I think we continue to see some real nice growth in the PFAS side of our environmental business. Started in the U.S., I think all those applied market secular drivers that we've been pointing to for, for some time, delivered in Q1. And I think our outlook remains the same that we're expecting there'll be a source of positivity for us in the overall CAM market space, albeit the chemical market is expected to remain subdued.

Donnell: Yes. That's right, Mike. I think it's really a tale of two submarkets. We saw broad resilience in the advanced materials with sequential growth. And given the extremely tough compare and high 20s we had last year, it was truly a very impressive result from the teams. The chemical and energy side was -- we saw a decline but on a very tough compare of 10% but we did see a sequential improvement versus Q4 '23. Overall, I think our portfolio is extremely strong in this area. We have ability to cross and upsell across that. And of course, our strong services offerings have that value proposition.

Knight: Mike, really super to see you love doing what you're doing and I knew you, I don't know, 15 years before you became CEO. So I guess, concluding question I would have, at least professionally, would be what do you see in terms of two things. Number one, why do you think the kind of market growth rate is for the markets that Agilent participates in? And then geographically, where do you see the surprise over the next 5 years? Like will Japan reinvigorate its growth? Will Europe see more in-sourcing?

Mullen: Thanks, Paul. Yes, we do go way back to don't we and it's been great to work with you over those years, going way back to the CAG days in my prior role, I think we think this is a 4% to 6% kind of growth market, mid-singles. So we think that the kind of market growth that we're not experienced in the industry right now is the anomalies and this will be back to that 4% to 6% kind of long-term growth rate. Obviously, certain segments within that overall macro number, that big TAM will be growing faster than that and that's always a challenge to make sure that you pick those segments so you can actually beat that number. I think there's going to be some geographic mix. I mean, we've evolved our view of long-term growth into China because we actually expect some of the supply chain moves and other things that have been going on that you'll see a growth, more growth in Europe which has been more of a slower grower for us geographically. But we've been -- continue to be surprised how well we do. Our team does in Europe. I think you're going to expect to see Japan rejuvenate it, particularly, I think you can make the case of the semi industry which is going to return to some strength in Japan. But that's the beauty of this business is just the diversified nature of both the end markets and geographies. So that would be my last -- I guess, my final projection of long-term growth for the market in this role. But thanks,

Mahon: Thanks, Padraig, and good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I will provide some additional details on revenue in the quarter as well as take you through the income statement and other key financial metrics. I'll then cover our updated full year and third quarter guidance. Q2 revenue was $1.573 billion. a decline of 7.4% core. On a reported basis, currency had a negative impact of 0.8 percentage points, while M&A had a negative impact of 0.2%, resulting in a reported decline of 8.4%. As Padraig mentioned, Pharma, our largest end market, declined 11%, with both Biopharma and Small Molecule declining roughly the same percentage. Instrument demand continues to be constrained, while services delivered mid-single-digit growth. Looking forward, while we have seen sentiment improve, instrument purchases are still constrained and we are expecting that to continue for the rest of the year. In addition, we have reduced our expectations for NASD as several clinical programs have pushed out into next year and some commercial products have not ramped at the pace as expected. As a result, we have reduced our full year growth outlook for the Pharma end market from roughly flat to down low double digits, similar to our Q2 performance. Our revised expectation for the Pharma end market is the largest change in our outlook. The Chemical and Advanced Materials market was better than expected, declining 3% after coming off a very tough comparison of 16% growth last year. The academia and government market declined 12% against a tough compare of 11% growth last year. While soft globally, the decline was driven by China, which was down mid-30s. Our business in the Diagnostics and Clinical market declined 2%. Our pathology business continues to show resilience in this market, growing mid-single digits, while our NGS QC instrumentation business also grew slightly. These were offset by softness in our NGS chemistries business. The Environmental and Forensics market declined 2%. The business grew mid-single digits ex China, highlighted by continued strength in serving the rapidly expanding PFAS opportunity. The Food market declined 13% on a very tough compare of 21% growth last year, heavily impacted by the low 30s decline in China. On a geographic basis, all regions declined. The Americas region was down 5%. Europe was down 3%, while Asia Pacific ex China was down slightly. China was down 21%, missing our expectations of a mid-teens decline. We saw demand weakness expand beyond Pharma. As a result, we have revised our full year expectations for China for a mid-single-digit decline to a double-digit decline. We have seen funnel activity increase because of the recently announced stimulus program, but we are not assuming any revenue impact in our fiscal year. Moving down to P&L. Our second quarter gross margin was 55.6%, up 30 basis points from a year ago as productivity and cost savings were offset by lower demand and mix. Our operating margin of 25.1% was down year-over-year as expected. Below the line, we benefited from greater-than-expected interest income and a lower tax rate. Our tax rate was 12.5%, and we had 293 million diluted shares outstanding. Putting it all together, Q2 earnings per share were $1.22, down 4% from a year ago, less than the decline in revenue and ahead of our expectations. Now let me turn to cash flow and the balance sheet. Operating cash flow was $333 million in the quarter and we invested $103 million in capital expenditures as we continue our planned NASD expansion. We returned $299 million to shareholders in the quarter, $69 million through dividends and $230 million through repurchase shares, catching up on our anti-dilutive buying year-to-date. In summary, we met our expectations for the quarter our markets are recovering but at a slower pace than we anticipated. We are directing our energy towards high-growth opportunities and are committed to delivering value to our customers and our shareholders. Now on to our revised outlook for the year and our third quarter guidance. We now expect full year revenue to be in the range of $6.42 billion to $6.50 billion. This represents a decline of 6.0% to 4.9% on a reported basis and a decline of 5.4% to 4.3% on a core basis. Currency and M&A combined are a headwind of 60 basis points. This is a $300 million reduction at the midpoint and is primarily related to changes in two areas : China overall in the Pharma end market outside of China. For China, we have reduced our expectations to a double-digit decline from mid-single digits with all end markets being reduced. This represents roughly $70 million of the guidance reduction. The remainder of the change in the Pharma end market globally outside of China is due to two factors. The first and largest factor is continued caution in budget releases and extended approval times for instrumentation purchases in both Small and Large Molecules. This is roughly $175 million of the change. The second factor is related to NASD due to the reasons I mentioned earlier, and represents the remaining $55 million reduction. While down from our previous guidance, we are expecting growth in the second half of the year to be roughly 400 basis points better than the first half of the year and plan to exit the year roughly flat year-on-year at the midpoint of the new guidance. Full year non-GAAP earnings per share are now expected to be between $5.15 and $5.25, representing a decline of 5.3% to 3.5%. This incorporates a roughly $35 million expense reduction due to the actions Padraig mentioned. The majority hit in Q4 in order to help mitigate the bottom-line impact of the change to our revenue guidance. It also assumes a 13% tax rate and 292 million fully diluted shares outstanding. We will leverage our strong balance sheet and plan to repurchase $750 million of our shares in the second half of the year in addition to our anti-dilutive repurchases. We expect these repurchases to be weighted towards Q3. All told, we expect to return roughly $1.4 billion to shareholders this year between dividends and share repurchases. In addition, the Board authorized a new $2 billion share repurchase program that will go into effect August 1 and replace the existing authorization. Now for our Q3 guidance, we expect revenue will be in the range of $1.535 billion to $1.575 billion. This represents a decline of 8.2% to 5.8% on a reported basis and a decline of 6.9% to 4.5% on a core basis. Currency and M&A combined were a headwind of 130 basis points. Third quarter non-GAAP earnings per share are expected to be between $1.25 and $1.28, representing a decline of 12.6% to 10.5%. Looking forward, we remain disciplined. We're focusing on what we can control and driving strong execution in a challenging market, and we are optimistic about the long-term future.

Sykes: Maybe just the first one is more of a timing question on China. I mean we've been through a lot of quarterly results this season and the stabilization theme in China has been pretty consistent and you guys have talked about sequential stabilization over the last number of quarters. So, was this really an April impact that you saw in China? And if so, what was sort of the deceleration that you saw there? And what were some of the causes of it?

Donnell: Yes. Thanks, Matt. I think while Q2 was relatively soft to guidance, we adjusted the H2 outlook, what we're seeing in China is we saw a -- stability over a number of quarters. What we really believe is that this is not a material deterioration from that. But what we've seen is that we've seen the stimulus have some effect and the stimulus has been much larger than previous stimulus. It's over multi-years. And of course, customers are looking about what are the components of that and they're looking at some of the areas and where it's going to help them. So that has had a material effect. We don't see the stimulus having an impact in H2, but we do think it's going to have an impact in '25. I think there's kind of a direct and indirect side of the stimulus. I think on the direct side, you see this delay, which is normal, but you see also the indirect side where, the government is investing in technology and sciences going forward, which creates a lot of,

Sykes: Got it. And then just for my follow-up, you guys have often talked about sort of 18- to 24-month down cycle in the LC replacement cycle. And I'm just wondering just given some of the comments you made around Biopharma, given that's an important customer segment for that, have you kind of changed those views in terms of what the LC replacement cycle will look like and what the potential recovery in the replacement cycle will look like? I think some were thinking sort of towards the end of this year, but is this more now into 2025, is that replacement cycle been extended in terms of recovery?

Donnell: Yes. Yes, look, when we look across our Pharma customers, we see generally, it's across the board. We do have some customers that are a little bit more positive than negative this year. But overall, I would say it's a market effect. What I would say -- on the other question, this is definitely a macro story, not a market share story. And in fact, when we look at our objective market share data, we're holding or even gaining in some areas. And I will remind you not to comment on our peers in this area, but we have a month ahead in what we're seeing on it, but we're seeing very robust market share numbers coming in.

Brennan: Maybe first one, just on China. You talked about in response to an earlier question about the stimulus is delaying demand this year. Could you just speak through that a little bit? Like what's your visibility on that? Any way to get a sense of how much of what you should be seeing in China's customers waiting to see the final details of the stimulus. And I know you also alluded to like this could be a big impact in '25. Can you just speak through that a little bit?

Donnell: Yes. Look, I think having worked with China for many years. It's a multiyear program as opposed to the last one, which I think was a year program in the shorter term. So, it's very encouraging to see it. We've seen some proposals from customers, but they're still, quite frankly, trying to work out what are the mechanisms for the funding as we go forward. So, we're seeing a lot of activity around that. And I would say in terms of the confidence boost, we do really see that in '25, we're going to get some benefit from this, but really too early to tell on it. So, we're taking down our guidance in the second half primarily related to this.

Vatnsdal: So first up, I just wanted to ask on China. We've seen some of the headlines from BIOSECURE Act. So, I was wondering if you could break down your exposure to large CDMOs in the region? And if that contributed to any of the weakness there just given me some of the commentary from an RFP standpoint? And then just on China stimulus and some of the dynamics there, how should we think about local competition competing for some of these dollars on the stimulus dynamic and you talked about some of these proposals that you're working on. So, can you detail what sectors, what types of customers are you really seeing that proposal work be done right now?

Donnell: Yes. Look, I think on the BIOSECURE Act, we see normal -- people are looking at their supply chains, and that's positives and negatives around the globe. As you see that one of the areas that we've seen from that is actually we see a benefit on our service business as we relocate laboratories in some cases and get them up and running quickly with our services on that one. So, definitely some exposure to CDMO, but I would say not the overall macro side on it. And then I think the second part, Bob, I don't know if you want to take that one?

Mahon: Yes. I would say just a building on that point on our questions around CDMO, most of our business in China is local. So, it's not multinational and so wouldn't necessarily fall under the BIOSECURE Act. There are certain large companies that are on that list that are customers of ours, but that is that business has been pretty muted for a while, and that's not the cause of the incremental weakness here. I would say on the bid activity, it's about -- it's across the board. It's not in one region of the country or one end market or customers and obviously, Chinese local competitors are going to be buying for that business like we are. But I think we've shown time and time again our ability to provide very strong and robust instrumentation, coupled with very good service. And so, I don't think that we're in any disadvantage from a local perspective from that standpoint.

Ahuja: Thanks, Regina, and thanks, everyone, for joining the call today. With that, we would like to end the call.

Donnell: Thanks, Parmeet. Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining today's call. The Agilent team executed well in the third quarter and posted solid results, delivering better-than-expected revenue and earnings. Revenue of $1.578 billion, declined 4.4%, an improvement of 300 basis points from Q2, reflecting the steady improvement in the market. Operating margin of 27.4% improved sequentially, as the actions we announced last quarter start to deliver. And we remain on-track to deliver the incremental annualized savings of $100 million by the end of the fiscal year. Earnings per share of $1.32 is $0.04 above the high end of guidance. As a result of our strong Q3 performance, we are raising our guidance at the midpoint for both revenue and EPS and we continue to make investments in our most promising growth opportunities that I referenced in our Q2 call. We are investing in our digital ecosystem to further enhance our differentiated customer experience, plus we are mobilizing the organization to accelerate value creation through strategic transformation initiatives, driving margin expansion and growth and increasing our execution capabilities. Separately in the quarter, we were excited to announce two acquisitions that demonstrate our focus on biopharma and our digital ecosystem, which I'll talk about in a moment. As you know well, the pace of change is faster than ever. Our markets, customers and competitors are not standing still, neither are we. We are accelerating our pace of innovation and execution, so we can add to and capitalize on opportunities in front of us. We are sharply focused on key growth vectors, including biopharma, PFAS and Advanced Materials. I continue to meet and connect with employees, customers and shareholders around the globe to listen to their perspectives on how we should build on our strengths and move Agilent forward. The entire Agilent team is clear on what is vital to the company's future, becoming even more customer focused and even more nimble to continue to win in the marketplace and add value to customers and shareholders. We are evolving our strategy, adapting quickly to market trends and changes, while accelerating our pace of innovation in areas of greatest return for long-term growth. We're excited to announce that you'll hear more about these topics and our transformation at our Investor Day we have planned in New York on December 17th. Now, let's talk further about our Q3 results. All our end markets except academia and government, which is our smallest, ended the quarter better-than-expected. Our largest market pharma declined high-single-digits, slightly better than our expectations and while biopharma continues to be pressured, we are seeing relatively better performance in small molecule. Our leadership in providing workflow solutions for PFAS continued to show strong performance in the environmental markets. Geographically, Europe exceeded expectations led by small-molecule pharma, as well as continued strength in environmental. Our other regions performed roughly in-line with expectations. While capital equipment budgets remain constrained, we continue to see good lab activity in Q3 with services plus consumables growing mid-single digits. When looking at our performance by business unit, the Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group reported $782 million in revenue, down 7%, while the instrument side of the business remains constrained, it was encouraging that our instrument book-to-bill was again greater than one. The group saw a decline across all regions and most end-markets with low single-digit growth in Environmental & Forensics. The Consumables continue to be a bright spot, growing by mid-single digit. The LSAG team also was busy innovating with the introduction of the 8850 GC that helps customers reach their sustainability goals by delivering answers efficiently, while using up to 30% less power than other GC's and has a much smaller footprint. Moving on to the Agilent CrossLab Group, the business delivered revenue of $411 million for the quarter, up mid-single digit. ACG grew in every region except China, where we were down modestly year-on-year, but showed meaningful improvement versus last quarter. Once again, we drove double-digit growth in service contracts, which represented nearly 70% of the total business. And beyond another quarter of solid revenue growth, ACG also delivered a record operating margin of 34%, demonstrating that the resiliency and strength of the recurring revenue business continues despite the constrained capital equipment environment. The continued strength of our business is a testament to our strategy of increasing the connect rates on our instruments and the ongoing value we are providing to our customers in helping them reach their productivity goals. The Diagnostics and Genomics Group posted $385 million in revenue, representing an 8% decline. Pathology grew mid-single digits globally and was offset by declines in Cell Analysis, NASD and genomics. NASD stepped down sequentially in Q3 as expected and we are on track for NASD's revenues to step-up sequentially in Q4. In the face of a constrained CapEx environment, the Agilent team has remained consistent in putting our customers first and fostering deeper relationships with them. We continue to execute well and be disciplined, while investing in high-growth opportunities. As I mentioned earlier, we were thrilled to announce two acquisitions, that speak to our focus on biopharma and increasing recurring revenue, as well as on strengthening the digital ecosystem for Agilent customers. In late July, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire BIOVECTRA, a leading specialized contract development and manufacturing organization. The Canada-based company builds on Agilent's capabilities in oligonucleotides and CRISPR therapeutics by expanding our portfolio of services. BIOVECTRA adds rapidly growing modalities in microbial fermentation, antibody-drug conjugates and high-potency active pharmaceutical ingredients. It also brings world-class capabilities that when combined with NASD enables us to deliver customers a complete gene editing solution. The company delivered more than $110 million in revenue during the calendar year 2023 and expects double-digit revenue growth this year. The BIOVECTRA acquisition remains on-track to be closed by the end of the year and we're looking-forward to welcoming the BIOVECTRA team to Agilent. At the end of the quarter, we also announced the acquisition of California-based Sigsense, a start-up that uses artificial intelligence and power monitoring to help customers optimize their lab operations. Sigsense Technology already is available to our customers through CrossLab Connect, a suite of digital applications that improve lab performance. A hearty welcome to the Sigsense team who already is part of Agilent. During the quarter, we released our annual ESG report, which showcases a large and growing portfolio of products that help our customers reach their sustainability goals. Instruments certified with the My GreenLab ACT label now accounts for 40% of all instrument revenue and we continue to regularly release products like the new 8850 GC with environmental benefits. We are also proud that we have recently ranked in the top 20 of Time Magazine's 500 Most Sustainable companies in the world. Bob will now provide the details on our results, as well as our outlook for the remainder of the year. After Bob delivers his comments,

Mahon: Thanks, Padraig and good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I'll provide some additional details on revenue in the quarter, as well as take you through the income statement and other key financial metrics. I'll then cover our updated full-year and fourth quarter guidance. Q3 revenue was $1.578 billion, a decline of 4.4% core, but a 300 basis-point sequential improvement as Padraig noted. Excluding China, revenue declined low-single digits in the quarter. On a reported basis, currency had a negative impact of 1.1 percentage points, while M&A had a negative impact of 10 basis points, resulting in a reported decline of 5.6%. Our largest end market pharma declined 8%. Biopharma was down low double-digits or down mid-single digits, excluding NASD. Small molecule performed better, down mid-single digits and was led by growth in Europe. Services and pharma continues to perform well, growing high single-digit. In Chemical & Advanced Materials, revenue declined 5%, with growth in Americas offset by softness in China. Our Advanced Materials sub-segment performed better, driven by our business in the semiconductor market. Academia and government, our smallest market, can be lumpy from quarter-to-quarter. We saw a decline of 11% as Europe and China both saw double-digit declines, partially offset by better performance in the Americas region. Our business in the diagnostics and clinical end-market grew 2%, including continued mid-single digit growth in pathology, offset by ongoing softness in genomics. In Environmental & Forensics, we grew 4%, another great quarter for our PFAS testing business. We saw robust business in Europe, led by the new EU Water Directive and in China due to the nationwide emerging pollutants program. Now wrapping up our end-markets, food was down 3% versus last year, but grew sequentially and was led by Asia, ex-China. Moving on to our regional performance, Europe was flat overall, beating our expectations, while we declined 6% in the Americas and declined 1% in Asia, ex-China. China revenue declined 11% with quarterly revenue improving sequentially, driven by growth in services and consumables. This speaks to some increase in lab activity, which is encouraging. Now, let's move on to the rest of the P&L. Gross margin was 56.0% in the quarter, down slightly versus a year-ago, but up 40 basis points sequentially. Our operating margin of 27.4% improved sequentially and was better-than-expected. Despite the dampened demand, we continue to make good progress in driving our productivity initiatives and continuing to manage the cost structure very well, while investing for growth. As Padraig mentioned, we are on track to deliver the $100 million in incremental annualized cost-savings by the end of the fiscal year. Below the line, our net interest income was in line as was our tax rate of 13% and we had $291 million diluted shares outstanding in the quarter. Putting it all together, Q3 earnings per share were $1.32. That was ahead of our expectations, but down 7.7% from a year ago as we went up against a difficult compare due to the variable pay reset in Q3 of last year. Now, let me turn to cash flow and the balance sheet. We continue to enjoy a very strong balance sheet and healthy cash flows. Operating cash flow was $452 million in the quarter and we invested $92 million in capital expenditures. As we committed in Q2, we ramped-up our share repurchases starting here in Q3. We purchased $585 million in shares and paid out $68 million through dividends, for a total of $653 million returned to shareholders in the quarter. This includes $500 million of the previously announced $750 million opportunistic share repurchase and we expect to complete the additional $250 million repurchase in Q4. We ended the quarter with a net leverage ratio of $0.6 and even with the upcoming BIOVECTRA acquisition, our balance sheet and leverage ratios will still be in a very strong position. In summary, we performed well and continue to see a steady improvement in the market and expect that to continue into FY 2025. Because of our Q3 results, we are increasing the midpoint of our revenue and earnings per share guidance for the year. We now expect full-year revenue to be in the range of $6.450 billion to $6.500 billion. This represents a decline of 5.6% to 4.9% on a reported basis and a decline of 5.0% to 4.3% on a core basis. Currency and M&A combined are a headwind of 60 basis points. Full-year non-GAAP earnings per share are now expected to be between $5.21 and $5.25, representing a decline of 4.2% to 3.5%. This assumes net interest income of $38 million, a 13% tax rate and $292 million fully diluted shares outstanding. We have not included any impact of the BIOVECTRA acquisition in our updated guidance and $0.06 does not have a material financial impact to the year or Q4. This full-year guidance translates into Q4 revenue in the range of $1.641 billion to $1.691 billion. This represents a decline of 1.9% to 1.1% growth on a core basis and a decline of 2.8% to 0.2% growth on a reported basis. Currency and M&A are a combined headwind of 90 basis-points. Fourth quarter non-GAAP earnings per share are expected to be between $1.38 and $1.42, marking a return to growth at the midpoint. We expect a 13% tax rate, a decrease in net interest income to $5 million due to the lower cash balance and $287 million diluted shares outstanding for the quarter. Now, I'd like to turn the call back to Padraig for some closing comments. Padraig?

Donnell: Yes. I'll start, Tycho and I'll bring in Simon in a minute. So we are absolutely delighted with BIOVECTRA. We think it's a great asset that enhances our offerings and it really allows us to deepen our relationships with our key pharma customers. And what we're really excited about is that it builds on our capabilities on the current NASD modalities around anti-sense and particularly gene editing with microbial fermentation and ADC capability. And so we're very happy with that. So there's a lot of synergies as we bring that forward. So I'll hand over to

May: Yes, I think Padraig hit many of the high notes already in terms of the synergies. We already mentioned the complete solution offering in gene editing, which we see as a really significant competitive advantage going forward. Sterile fill finish is another synergy that we're excited about. We've had a lot of request from our customers over the past few years for that capability. And from the diligence we've done with BIOVECTRA, we think they've got truly world-class capabilities there. And as Padraig also mentioned with microbial fermentation, high potency APIs, there's an existing footprint there in GLP-1 manufacturing. So I think we've got a slightly higher clinical mix in BIOVECTRA than we have in NASD. So I think we're just killing several birds with one stone with this acquisition. From a capacity perspective, I'd say BIOVECTRA has been ahead of the curve with capacity CapEx and we've got some skin to grow into there over the next few years

Peterson: Okay. That's helpful. And then a follow-up on China. You had the pull-forward dynamic in the first quarter, $15 million. If that were back in 2Q, I think you were effectively flat, maybe down a little bit. First, is that the right assumption? What are you actually embedding in 4Q for China in guidance? And then how do you think about the return to growth in 2025? Could you see that in the first half of the year?

Ahuja: Thanks, Regina and thanks everyone for joining the call today. With that, we'd like to end the call.

Donnell: Great. Thank you, Parmeet. Hello, everyone, and thank you for joining today's call. Before I begin, I would like to welcome new AMG President, Mike Zhang. While Mike is new to this role, he is not new to Agilent. Mike joined Agilent more than twenty years ago as a manufacturing engineer in China and most recently was Vice President and General Manager of the GC and GCMS business. Within our former Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group, with his broad experience in both manufacturing and into the business, Mike will be an incredible asset in this role. Very much looking forward to him moving AMG and Agilent forward. I also want to take a moment to wish Phil Binns a wonderful retirement in advance of him leaving Agilent. Phil joined Agilent with the Varian acquisition in 2010. All told, Phil is celebrating just over forty years of service with Agilent and Varian. Although Phil is retiring from the business president role, he has graciously agreed to serve as a special adviser through April 2025. All of us at Agilent wish Phil the very best and look forward to working with him during the last five months at Agilent. Now onto our high-level Q4 results. I am happy to share not only our solid fourth quarter results that point to continued steady market recovery, but also our outlook and drivers for the 2025 fiscal year. I am especially excited to talk about Agilent's customer-first strategy evolution and our aggressive transformation ambition that led to the news you read ahead of the call. The new market-focused organizational structure to become a nimbler, even more customer-centric company to accelerate our performance. In the fourth quarter, the Agilent team delivered revenue of $1.701 billion, roughly one percent reported growth with a flat core growth. This represents a sequential improvement of over four hundred basis points from Q3. In addition, our total company book-to-bill was greater than one. This points to a steady market improvement we are seeing and we expect it to continue in 2025. We also gained share in all our geographies. Evidence that even in challenging CapEx environment, customers trust Agilent. As we evolve, we are confident this will only accelerate. Bob will provide deeper details on our Q4 results and our outlook for Q1 and FY 2025. Now I would like to spend some time talking about our new organization structure we announced earlier today. Our new market-focused organization structure is a result of our customer-centric market force strategy and an important step in our organizational transformation work, which we have named Ignite. This is a product of our enterprise focus strategy that drives our evolution to become a nimbler, even more customer-centric company to accelerate our performance. The new market-focused organization structure is one of the most significant changes Agilent has seen in a decade and continues the work we did creating our commercial organization three years ago. The commercial organization doubled down on our customer-first approach in the field and it's a critical competitive advantage in supporting our customers. At that time, we started by creating a singular commercial leadership structure. We then created a foundational infrastructure and intensified our focus on digital capabilities, accelerated and end-to-end customer experience, and ensured sales channels were customer and market-centric. So changes you see today are part of the successful journey we started three years ago. With the new structure, we are aligning business units to our markets facilitating close collaboration among the businesses like never before and enabling better execution and cross-division customer-first priorities. We are combining the strength of our three businesses as well as our portfolios so that we can offer end-to-end solutions and workflows revolve around our customers and markets. The Life Sciences and Diagnostics Markets Group's or LDG represents $2.5 billion in annual revenue and is primarily focused on our pharma, biopharma, and clinical diagnostic end markets. LDG provides a comprehensive portfolio of leading technology platforms and solutions to serve Agilent's customers' value chain, including research and discovery, development and scale-up, production of therapeutics, and development of critical cancer diagnostics. LDG includes LC and LCMS, cell analysis as well as CDMO capabilities which include NESD and BioVectra. The business also includes pathology, companion diagnostics, and genomics. Simon May will serve as president of LDG prior to joining Agilent earlier this year at Bio-Rad Laboratories. Simon was Executive Vice President and President of Life Science Group. The Applied Markets Group or AMG represents $1.3 billion in annual revenue and is focused on food, environmental, forensics, chemicals, and advanced materials markets. AMG includes GC and GCMS spectroscopy, vacuum technology platforms, and certified pre-owned business. AMG will focus on growing its agile and strong leadership in these markets and accelerating growth in new areas of the market. Mike Zhang, a twenty-two-year veteran of Agilent, has been promoted to president of AMG. Most recently, Mike was Vice President and General Manager of our GC and GCMS product lines. The Agilent CrossLab Group or ACG represents $2.7 billion in annual revenue and is focused on supporting our customers in all our end markets. The group is uniquely positioned to leverage its comprehensive portfolio and capabilities to further enhance the installed base of instruments with targeted workflows and applications that drive critical outcomes and productivity in labs. ACG includes services, software and informatics, automation, and consumables. This business will accelerate and strengthen customer relationships across all end markets. Angelica Riemann, a twenty-five-year veteran of Agilent, will continue to serve as president of ACG. Prior to her current role, she served as Vice President and General Manager of the ACG services business. This change is one of the many that demonstrate how we are becoming nimbler and accelerating the pace of innovation. And you can see that with the Q4 launch of the exciting Agilent Infinity 3 LC series that harnesses our fifty years of LC expertise and leadership. The Infinity 3 series has advanced automation that simplifies our customers' daily routines and is compatible with previous generation, which allows for seamless upgrades and technology refreshes. And Agilent Infinity Lab LC solutions are certified by MyGreenLab. These instruments optimize lab space, and they reduce water, solvent, and energy consumption while also minimizing waste. While just launched in October, early traction from customers has been very positive. Also in Q4, we closed our acquisition of BioVectra, demonstrating our commitment to providing customers the most advanced capabilities to accelerate our therapeutic programs. With BioVectra now being part of Agilent, we expand our portfolio of CDMO services beyond our market-leading oligonucleotide production at NASD. Adding more rapidly growing therapeutic modalities like peptide synthesis, a market expected to continue to expand rapidly over the coming years. And bringing world-class capability to support gene editing therapies. Just last month, my leadership team and I visited BioVectra to welcome our new team members to Agilent, and we became even more accelerated by the capabilities we would be able to harness. Plus both Agilent and BioVectra's focus on putting customer first and accelerating the pace of innovation so we can add to and capitalize on opportunities was abundantly clear as I spoke to dozens of BioVectra employees. Separately, during the quarter, we hit another important milestone. For the full year, we passed the $1 billion mark in digital orders, for the first time across the company. This is a result of our investment in our digital ecosystem to ensure our customers can do business with us in ways that meet their needs. To reinforce what I have stated in previous calls, we are sharply focused on key growth factors such as BioPharma, PFAS, and advanced materials. And the Agilent team has mobilized to accelerate value creation through our Ignite transformation program. The objective of Ignite is to drive revenue growth and margin expansion by increasing our execution capabilities.

Donnell: and so are we. That is exactly why we introduced our new market-focused organization structure. We are laser-focused on winning in the marketplace and adding value to our customers and shareholders. We will dive more deeply into these details including our evolved strategy and the Ignite transformation, that will help us execute on that strategy.

Donnell: Bob would now provide the details of the results as well as our outlook for the fiscal year of 2025 and the first quarter. After Bob delivers his comments,

Mahon: Thank you, Padraig, and good afternoon, everyone. In my remarks today, I will provide some additional details on fourth quarter revenue and take you through the income statement and other key financial metrics. I will then cover our guidance for fiscal year 2025 and the first quarter of 2025. Unless otherwise noted, my remarks will focus on non-GAAP results. As Padraig said, we are pleased with our Q4 results. Agilent finished the fourth quarter, with core growth in line with our expectations while EPS exceeded our expectations as we executed well against a challenging albeit improving market. Q4 revenue was $1.701 billion, a decline of 0.3% core but a sequential improvement of over four hundred basis points. On a reported basis, our revenues were up 0.8% as we benefited from fifty basis points of currency and BioVectra contributed sixty basis points. Looking at our Q4 performance by business unit, the Life Sciences and Applied Markets Group reported $833 million in revenue. That represents a 1% decline as instrument volumes continue to be constrained, by conservative customer CapEx spending while consumables grew mid-single digits. Having said that, for our instruments business, our orders grew year on year and for the third consecutive quarter, our book-to-bill was once again greater than one. We see this as positive evidence of an ongoing steady instrument recovery. Moving on to Agilent CrossLab Group, the business delivered revenue of $426 million for the quarter, 5%. ACG grew in every market and in every region except China, where it was flat year over year but up sequentially. The contracts business including our fast-growing enterprise services business, double digits again in Q4 as it has every quarter this year. Our largest customers continue to maximize utilization of their assets, right-size their operations, and leverage OpEx budgets to deliver on their productivity goals and outcomes. We recently received a top supplier award from one of our largest strategic customers in the applied markets as a recognition of our long-standing and beneficial partnership throughout the years. The Diagnostics and Genomics Group posted $442 million in revenue, representing a 3% decline that was slightly above expectations. Pathology saw solid growth globally, and was offset by expected softness in NESD and cell analysis instruments. Now looking at our end markets and geographies, our largest end market, pharma, declined 1%, slightly better than what we expected. Within pharma, biopharma declined mid-single digits while small molecule grew low single digits. Encouragingly, all regions except for the Americas, grew in the quarter. The Americas region was pressured by the expected decline of NASD. We expect both the Americas region and NASD to return to growth in fiscal year 2025. In chemicals and advanced materials, revenue grew 1% with our advanced materials submarket growing mid-single digits driven by our business in the semiconductor market. Our business in the diagnostics and clinical end market performed strongly growing 7% driven by pathology, and improved performance in genomics.

Mahon: we declined 6% although dollars were roughly flat sequentially. All regions grew except for the US, related to timing of orders. That being said, we continue to see very strong growth in PFAS solutions. With our business growing more than 40% in Q4 across multiple end markets. Now wrapping up our end markets, food was down 3% versus last year. While our academia and government market was down 1%. Geographically, Asia ex-China high single digits and Europe grew low single digits in the quarter while the Americas and China declined as expected. China was down only 3% and exceeded our expectations. We also booked our first China stimulus orders in October and anticipate much more in fiscal year 2025. Now let's move to the rest of the P&L. Gross margin was 55.1% in the quarter, down seventy basis points versus last year driven by lower volume and mix. Our operating margin was 27.4% as our productivity initiatives and the cost actions we took earlier in the year were fully recognized this quarter. The annualization of these savings coupled with the market recovery and the initial returns from the Ignite transformation, give us confidence in driving EPS growth in fiscal year 2025. In addition, we continue to look for ways to drive EPS growth below the line. Our net interest income was in line while we benefited from a lower tax rate in the quarter and our share count was 287 million diluted shares outstanding. Now putting it all together, Q4 earnings per share was $1.46, that was ahead of our expectations and up 6% from a year ago. Now let me turn to cash flow and the balance sheet. We continue to enjoy a very strong balance sheet and healthy cash flows. Operating cash flow was $481 million in the quarter, and we invested $93 million in capital expenditures. For the year, we well exceeded our operating cash flow expectations. With operating cash flow of $1.75 billion during the quarter, we returned over $400 million to shareholders, consisting of $335 million in share repurchases, and $68 million in dividends. For the year, we returned over $1.4 billion to shareholders, through repurchasing shares and dividends. Looking forward, you may have also seen recently we announced a 5% increase in our quarterly dividend. Marking another year of increases advancing our industry-leading dividend. We ended the quarter with a net leverage ratio of 1.1, a very strong number even as we acquired BioVectra in the quarter. Our strong cash flow and healthy balance sheet provide us with plenty of opportunity to invest in the business going forward. In summary, we performed well and saw steady market improvement in the quarter. We are executing well, staying disciplined, and investing in high-growth opportunities. Now let's move on to our outlook for the upcoming fiscal year and first quarter. We expect the recovery that we have seen the past few quarters to continue throughout fiscal 2025. While we expect the market to grow slower than historical rates for the full year, we expect improvement throughout the year with the second half of the year returning to more traditional levels of growth. We expect our results to mirror that cadence of improvement on a core basis. As Padraig noted earlier, we exited Q4 with a book-to-bill ratio over one for the company, and greater than one for instruments. In addition, Q4 was the first quarter in 2024 that instrument orders grew year on year. While one quarter does not a trend make, it is certainly encouraging. For the full year guide, we expect revenue in the range of $6.79 to $6.87 billion. This represents a reported growth range of 4.3% to 5.5%. Currency is a slight headwind of 0.2 points while M&A related to BioVectra contributes 2% at the low end and 2.2% at the high end. This translates to a core growth of 2.5% to 3.5%. To start the year, we think this is a prudent way to plan given the near-term dynamics in the US. From a geographic perspective, we expect modest growth in the Americas and Europe. While we see funnel activity increasing in China, we are taking a conservative approach on the timing of revenue associated with the stimulus. We expect to see recovery over the course of the year in China, resulting in slightly positive growth for the full year. From a business group perspective, we expect to return to growth in all three groups led by ACG. As a note, this statement is true under the new structure as well. As Parmeet mentioned earlier, we will provide recast historical segment information to reflect these changes ahead of our upcoming investor day. In terms of phasing, we expect improvement throughout the year with more normalized growth expected in the second half of the year. We are projecting roughly fifty to seventy basis points of operating margin expansion for the year. Below the line, we expect net interest expense of $25 million due to the financing of BioVectra versus the net interest income this year. In addition, we expect a tax rate of 13% and 286 million shares outstanding. Fiscal 2025 non-GAAP EPS is expected to be in the range of $5.54 to $5.61 and incorporates the planned five cents year one dilution from BioVectra. This range represents a 5% to 6% growth rate if excluding the BioVectra dilution, a growth rate of 6% to 7% year on year. We expect cash flow to remain strong in fiscal year 2025. We are expecting roughly $1.65 billion in operating cash flow and $450 million in CapEx as 2025 is the peak spending year for the NASD expansion. Looking to Q1, we expect revenue in the range of $1.65 billion to $1.68 billion. Our forecast assumes no significant budget flush during the end of this calendar year. This represents a reported decline of 0.5% to growth of 1.3%. Currency is a thirty basis point headwind while M&A is expected to contribute 1.8 points of growth. We are expecting core growth between a decline of 2% to flat at the upper end. It's important to note that we estimate our projected Q1 year-over-year results will be negatively impacted this year by roughly two percentage points due to timing of the Lunar New Year which occurs in late January, versus February of last year. This includes the additional $15 million in revenue pull forward we communicated in Q1 of last year. Adjusting for the Lunar New Year impact, we are expecting continued sequential growth improvement. First quarter 2025 non-GAAP earnings per share are expected to be between $1.25 and $1.28. Lower than the full year growth rate due to the Lunar New Year timing. Looking into 2025 and beyond, we remain incredibly optimistic about the future of our markets and our long-term prospects. We are confident in our new market-focused approach and the Ignite transformation will propel us to accelerated growth and we will become a stronger company. With that,

Raycroft: Perfect. Thank you for taking the questions, you guys, and good afternoon. So I wanted to follow-up on Patrick's question on China. Appreciate that it's early days, but how are you guys thinking about the risk of potential tariffs on Agilent's business at this point in China and in the rest of the world? Is there anything embedded in guidance currently from a tariff standpoint? And then can you remind us what was the tariff impact on Agilent in the first Trump administration?

Mahon: Yeah. Hey, Rachael. This is Bob. I'll take that question. As you can imagine, there's been a fair amount of work that we've been doing on this exact question. What I would take it if I took it into two chunks, actually, we've been working on diversifying our supply chain particularly within China, you know, China, back in eighteen, nineteen when the first tariffs came and then, obviously, double down on that resiliency with COVID. And so it is ten to fifteen million dollars existing today. And we think that the future potential magnitude of this is certainly manageable with us with additional mitigation activities. Obviously, with something that would be more broad-based than that, it would be more material. But to just give you a frame of reference, roughly two-thirds of our business in the

Raycroft: Great. That's helpful. And then just for my follow-up, you mentioned that chemical and advanced materials grew 1% this quarter. Was wondering, could you just break down some of the trends that you saw within? You mentioned that semiconductors drove some of the performance that you saw on the advanced materials side. We actually had one of your peers call out some weakness in semi this quarter. So just talk to us about what you're seeing from an underlying perspective on that side.

Souda: Yeah. Hi, Padraig, Bob, thanks for taking my questions. First one, just wanted to clarify on the tariff side. I mean, if there were any retaliatory tariffs could you elaborate on your manufacturing and final assembly positions just globally so we can understand sort of how much of the product is sort of China for China, made in China versus made in other

Donnell: Yeah. Maybe I can start off by talking about our, you know, our US supply chain in there. About 60%, as Bob said, is produced in the United States. About 35% is the rest of the world. So it's actually a small percentage that's produced in China. But, of course, we have mitigations and steps there. We have many supply chain areas across the globe that we can move around, and we've done that before since 2018. We expect the impact probably in the quarter of $4 million to $5 million we can probably mitigate that within a few months. So I would say we're waiting to see how that all plays out. But we're already taking steps across potential tariffs. The big question for everybody is that will it be on will it be beyond China? I think everybody's waiting to see what that is, but even in that case, we're ready with mitigations.

Mahon: Yeah. Hey, Puneet. To build on what Padraig is saying, particularly for retaliatory tariffs in China, very little of our revenue now is produced in the US that goes into China. We spent a lot of time and effort building in China for China, and we have a full portfolio of capabilities there. Which is actually really important for us to be able to take full advantage of the stimulus products today. So, and, you know, I think that number will be relatively small. From the standpoint of retaliatory impact from

===== RECORD 2 =====
Company: Apple Inc.
Ticker: AAPL
Sector: Information Technology
Industry: Technology Hardware, Storage & Peripherals
Transcript Count: 45
Filtered Turn Count: 619
Matched Keywords: bottleneck, capacity, capacity constraint, capacity constraints, delay, delays, depend on, depends on, distribution, facilities, factories, factory, freight, inventory, logistics, manufacturing, network, operational, plant, plants, procurement, produced, producing, production, raw material, raw materials, relies on, rely on, shipment, shipments, shipping, shortage, shortages, supplier, suppliers, supply chain

Oppenheimer: Thank you, Nancy. We’re very pleased to report the results of the first quarter of Apple’s fiscal year ’14. We established new all-time quarterly records for iPhone and iPad sales and had one of our best Mac quarters ever, driving the highest quarterly revenue and operating profit in Apple’s history. We were also very pleased with our results in emerging markets around the world. Revenue for the quarter was $57.6 billion, up $3.1 billion, or 6%, from the year ago quarter and near the high end of our guidance range. No technology company has ever generated that much revenue in a single quarter, and we’re especially pleased to have generated that record despite foreign exchange headwinds, the year over year decline in iPod sales, and the higher revenue deferral rates from iOS devices and Macs that we discussed last quarter. These three factors negatively impacted revenue by about $2.5 billion, and without them, our year over year revenue growth would have been about 10%. Gross margin was 37.9%, above the high end of our guidance range, and operating margin was an all-time record of $17.5 billion, representing 30.3% of revenue. Net income was $13.1 billion, translating to diluted earnings per share of $14.50, a new record. As for the details of the quarter, I’d like to begin with iPhone. Despite supply constraints on iPhone 5S, we sold 51 million iPhones compared to 47.8 million in the year ago quarter. That’s an increase of over 3 million phones, or 7%, and a new quarterly record. iPhone sales growth was very strong year over year in Japan, thanks to the addition of NTT Docomo in September and our continued partnership with Softbank and KDDI. In fact, based on the latest data published by Kantar, iPhone accounts for 69% share of the smartphone market in Japan. We also generated strong year over year iPhone growth in greater China, Latin America, the Middle East, and Russia. In the U.S. market, Apple remains the leading smartphone manufacturer, with iPhone accounting for 41% of smartphone subscribers in the three-month period ending in November, according to ComScore. We’re very pleased to have reached a multiyear agreement with China Mobile, the largest network in the world, with over 750 million customers, and to be selling iPhones through their expansive network of stores, beginning on January 17. China is an incredibly important market to Apple, and iOS devices already account for 57% of all mobile web browsing in China. iPhone customers are loving their phones, and continue to produce the highest loyalty rates in the industry. A December survey of U.S. customers by ChangeWave indicated a 96% customer satisfaction rate for iPhone. And based on the latest data provided by Kantar, iPhone customers have a 90% loyalty rate, significantly higher than the competition. We exited the quarter with about 15.3 million total iPhones in channel inventory, which represented a sequential increase of less than 1 million units from the September quarter, and left us within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks of iPhone channel inventory. The release of new iPhones with iOS 7 introduced powerful new security and management features for business and enterprise customers. And iOS 7 has received FIPS 140-2 certification from the U.S. federal government. These features, coupled with ease of developing custom enterprise apps, continue to make iPhone the device of choice for large organizations. Many companies, including Accenture, Cisco, and American Airlines, have tens of thousands of employees using iPhones for work. In fact, some, including Deloitte and GE, have over 50,000 iPhones each on their networks around the world. And based on the latest data published by IDC, combining business, government, and education institutions, iPhone has a 59% share of the U.S. commercial smartphone market. Turning to iPad, despite supply constraints, we sold over 26 million iPads during the quarter, compared to 22.9 million in the year ago quarter. That’s an increase of over 3 million iPads, or 14%, and represents a new all-time quarterly sales record. iPad sales were very robust in Mainland China, where sales more than doubled year over year. We also experienced strong iPad sales growth in the Middle East, Latin America, Russia, and parts of Western Europe. Customers are loving the new iPad Air and iPad Mini, with Retina Display, introduced in October, and response to the more affordable iPad Mini has been very strong. In fact, a November ChangeWave survey of customers planning to buy a tablet within 90 days found that 72% plan to purchase an iPad. And among customers who already owned an iPad, the survey measured a 97% satisfaction rate. We exited the quarter with 6.2 million units of iPad channel inventory, a sequential increase of about 2.1 million units, which placed us within our target range of 4 to 6 weeks of iPad channel inventory. Based on the latest data published by IDC, iPad has a 78% share of the U.S. commercial tablet market, and iPad continues to spark innovation for businesses around the world. Leveraging custom developed and App Store apps, progressive IT organizations have embraced mobility, armed employees with iPad, and fundamentally changed the way people do their jobs. British Airways has deployed thousands of iPads to their employees across the business, including senior cabin staff, engineers, check-in staff, pilots, and ground crew. At Kindred Healthcare, iPads are now being used by the sales team, executives, and thousands of therapists nationwide, resulting in millions of dollars of estimated savings and productivity gains for Kindred and their customers. And this football season, nearly every team in the NFL use iPads as playbooks, replacing their traditional three-ring paper binders. In the education market, schools continue to choose iPad and the great content available across apps, books, and courses. To date, U.S. educational institutions have purchased over 7 million iPads. In fact, we’ve sold over 750,000 iPads to K-12 schools in the state of Texas alone, including 7,000 iPads rolling out to all K-12 students in the Midway Independent School District. We have expanded the availability of iBook textbooks in four countries to over 50 countries, so that students and teachers around the world can experience the power of what a textbook can be. We continue to add new titles from key education publishers like Oxford University Press and Cambridge University Press. In addition, nearly 25,000 books have been created and published by individual educators using iBooks Author, bringing lessons to life in exciting new ways. And over 1,000 institutions are delivering courses and content through iTunes U. At the Ohio State University, where there are over 20,000 iPads on campus, faculty have developed over 70 iTunes U courses in less than one school year. We remain very focused on providing a great user experience for our iPhone and iPad customers, and we’re extremely pleased that the iOS platform continues to lead the industry in user engagement. According to IBM’s Digital Analytics Benchmark, iOS devices accounted for more than twice the online traffic and more than five times the online sales compared to Android devices on both Black Friday and Christmas Day. IBM reported that iOS devices represented 32.6% of online traffic on December 25, and more than double the 14.8% for Android. While iOS devices drove 23% of online sales that day, 5x the 4.6% for Android. And, according to the latest reports by TechInsights, iPhone accounted for 54% of North American smartphone web traffic, while iPad accounted for 78% of tablet traffic. These usage percentages are far greater than the share of the smartphone and tablet markets represented by our devices, and they underscore just how engaging and important our iPhones and iPads are to the people who own them. We’re also very pleased with our customers’ adoption of iOS 7. As of this month, 80% of iOS devices are running iOS 7. That dwarfs the single-digit adoption percentage measured for the latest version of the Android operating system, and makes iOS 7 the most popular operating system in the world. The rapid transition to the latest version of iOS provides a more advanced and secure experience for our customers, and a more streamlined opportunity for our developers. Turning to Mac, we sold 4.8 million Macs, compared to 4.1 million in the year ago quarter, an increase of 19%, making this among our best Mac quarters ever. The growth was driven by significantly increased sales of iMac and Macbook Air, while sales of Macbook Pro also remained strong. Mac sales grew in each of our operating segments, led by Europe and greater China. We were also very pleased to have generated such strong results for our Mac products, particularly given IDC’s most recently published estimate of a 6% year over year contraction in worldwide personal computer sales. Macs have now gained global market share for 30 of the last 31 quarters. We were happy to begin selling the all-new Mac Pro last month, manufactured in the U.S., and we had great customer response to OS X Mavericks, now available for free and running on millions of Macs around the world. And we were also delighted to be providing our groundbreaking iWork productivity apps for free of charge to our Mac, iPhone, and iPad customers. We ended the quarter with Mac channel inventory that was within our 4-5 week target range. 30 years ago this week, Apple launched the Macintosh. Not only was the Macintosh a breakthrough for the personal computer, it was also a promise that the power of technology taken from the few and put in the hands of everyone could change the world. Over the past 30 years, people have done extraordinary things with the Mac, and with the Apple products it inspired. To coincide with the 30 year mark, we’ve taken a look at what people have accomplished on a special website that showcases their Mac stories. Their achievements are a result of Apple’s continued commitment to create and deliver the best technology to people all over the world, every day. Happy Birthday, Mac. Imagine what we can accomplish in the next 30 years. We continue to be very pleased with the growth of iTunes software and services and the strength of the Apple ecosystem. Total revenue from iTunes software and services was $4.4 billion, an increase of 19% year over year. Our iTunes stores generated record billings of $4.7 billion in the December quarter, thanks primarily to strong growth in App Store sales. The quarter of iTunes billings translated to quarterly iTunes revenue of over $2.4 billion, up 14% from the year ago quarter, and a new all-time record. Software and services revenue was about $2 billion, up 26% from the year ago quarter, and also a new record. We achieved these records despite the fact we are now making iPhoto, iMovie, Pages, Numbers, and Keynote free with new iOS device purchases, and we’re also making Mavericks, iLife, and iWork free to our Mac customers. As we mentioned last quarter, we are now deferring a greater amount of revenue for each new iOS device and Mac sold as a result of the free software and associated upgrade rights. At the end of the quarter, our total deferred revenue from all sources was $11.4 billion, and we expect to realize $8.4 billion of it in the next four quarters. The App Store now offers 1 million apps in 24 categories and cumulative downloads have surpassed 65 billion. Our app developers earned 2 billion from sales in the App Store in the December quarter. That translates to $15 billion in cumulative App Store earnings for our developers, about half of which was generated in the last four quarters, and we are thrilled with the success that they have achieved. In China specifically, we have an incredibly vibrant iOS and Mac developer community. Developers in China have created over 130,000 apps on the App Store to date. A recent study by Business Insider Intelligence indicated that iOS has a 5x advantage over Android when it comes to developer revenue per app download, a 4x advantage in revenue from in-app purchases, and a 2x advantage in revenue from paid downloads plus in-app purchases. And according to a recent report from Distimo, the App Store has a 63% to 37% market share advantage over Google Play in global revenue from apps. Top developers continue to launch their apps first, or exclusively, on the App Store. Examples of highly successful launches from 2013 include Temple Run 2 and Cut The Rope 2, which generated millions of downloads in multiweek periods of App Store exclusivity. NaturalMotion recently launched Clumsy Ninja exclusively on iOS and saw 10 million downloads in the first week. And Plants Versus Zombies 2 resulted in the biggest game title launch ever for Electronic Arts’ Pop Cap, with 16 million downloads from the App Store in the first five days alone. With the introduction of iOS 7, developers are able to create stunning apps to take advantage of the redesigned user interface and more than 200 new features and APIs. And many of the App Store’s biggest recent successes, including Candy Crush Saga, Puzzle & Dragons, Minecraft, QuizUp, and Clumsy Ninja, were created by international developers. The seamless integration of the iOS platform, the global reach of our ecosystem, our thoughtful app review process, and our highly engaged customers continue to make the App Store a superior marketplace for our extremely talented developer community. I’d now like to turn to the Apple retail stores. Revenue for the quarter was $7 billion, a new quarterly record, and in increase of 9% from the year ago quarter. The growth was fueled by record iPhone and iPad sales through the stores as well as strong Mac sales. We completed the remodel of six stores and opened four new stores during the quarter, ending with a total of 420 stores, including 166 outside the United States. With an average of 418 stores open during the December quarter, average revenue per store was $16.7 million, compared to $16.3 million in the year ago quarter. Retail segment income was $1.7 billion. We hosted 114 million visitors to our stores during the quarter, which translates to almost 21,000 visitors per store, per week. We were excited to roll out iBeacon technology at our stores in the U.S. during the quarter, enabling shoppers to receive iPhone notifications about products and services via the Apple Store app. iBeacon transmitters use Bluetooth wireless technology to sense a shopper’s exact location inside an Apple Store and send messages based on the aisle or product the customer is near. For example, customers walking by an iPhone table could receive a message offering to help them check their upgrade eligibility or trade-in value of an existing phone. We expect to see many innovative uses of iBeacon technology from other businesses and developers in the coming months, including retailers and professional sports. Total company operating expenses were $4.4 billion, and included $572 million in stock based compensation expense, aligning with $246 million, and the tax rate for the quarter was 26.2%. And turning to our cash, we ended the quarter with $158.8 billion in cash or short term and long term marketable securities, a sequential increase of $12 billion from the September quarter. Our domestic cash was $34.4 billion at the end of the December quarter, a sequential decline of $1.1 billion. $124.4 billion, or 78%, of our total cash was offshore at the end of the December quarter, and cash flow from operations was $22.7 billion. We paid $2.7 billion in dividends in the quarter, and we executed an additional $5 billion in repurchases of 9.6 million shares of Apple stock during the quarter. This brings us to a cumulative total of over $43 billion in payments for dividends and share repurchases over the last six quarters, of which share buybacks were $28 billion. This has resulted in Q1 retirement of 56.5 million shares and represents 6% of the total shares outstanding prior to the launch of the repurchase program. Our board of directors has declared a dividend of $3.05 per common share, payable on February 13, 2014, to shareholders of record as of the close of business on February 10, 2014. Now, as we move ahead in the March quarter, I’d like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $42 billion and $44 billion, compared to $43.6 billion in the year ago quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 37% and 38%, reflecting approximately $110 million related to stock based compensation expense. We expect opex to be between $4.3 billion and $4.4 billion, including about $590 million related to stock based compensation. We are continuing to invest heavily in R&D, in both current revenue generating categories as well as future products and services. We expect OI&E to be about $200 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.2%. In closing, we are very pleased with our record iPhone and iPad sales, the strong performance of our Mac products, and the growth of iTunes software and services revenue. We are thrilled to have the most satisfied, loyal, and engaged customers in our industry, and we are confidently working to make the user experience even better for them. We are continuing to invest heavily in our future, and remain very confident in our new product pipeline. With that, I’d like to open the call to questions.

Paxton: Thank you, Peter. We ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow up. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Stanley: Peter, revenue guidance embeds a sequential decline that’s bigger than what you experienced in the March 2013 quarter, and I think implies iPhone units may not grow in the March quarter year on year. So can you just talk about what’s driving the cautious view on the top line for March?

Oppenheimer: The biggest reason for the larger sequential decline in revenue this year relates to changes in channel inventory between the years. And I’ll go through some detail, but let me actually do it on a year over year basis. I’d like to go through some things about the guidance, and I think you’ll see that the underlying performance of our business is stronger than what the guidance might imply. We expect four factors to negatively impact the year over year revenue comparison by over $2 billion. These are channel inventory increases in the year ago quarter that we don’t expect to repeat, lower iPod sales, a stronger U.S. dollar against a number of currencies, particularly the yen and the Australian dollar, and the higher per unit deferral for Mac and iOS devices that I talked about in my prepared remarks. Let me go through these a little more. First, beginning with channel inventory, in the March quarter last year, we increased channel inventory for both iPhone and iPad, whereas this year we increased the channel inventory for both product families in the December quarter, and we exited within our target range of channel inventory. For iPhone, specifically last year, the supply of iPhone 5 was short for the entire December quarter, and we were not able to achieve supply and demand balance for iPhone 5 until the March quarter. As a result, we increased the iPhone inventory last year by about 1.1 million units. In contrast, this year we executed the fastest rollout for our new iPhones, and we included China in wave one, in the launch in September, and we were able to exit the quarter in supply and demand balance. For iPad, we introduced the Mini in the December quarter last year, and we were not able to meet demand in any week of the quarter. We didn’t reach supply and demand balance for the iPad Mini until the March quarter last year, and we increased inventory in the March quarter by 1.4 million units. In contrast, this year we exited the December quarter near supply and demand balance. So looking past the inventory changes year-to-year, we expect the value of the underlying sell through to grow year over year, and we’re very confident in what we’re shipping. Turning to iPod, sales declined by 52% year over year in the December quarter, and we would expect them to continue to decline year over year in the March quarter. And FX is a headwind for us with the strengthening dollar against a number of currencies. So when you consider these factors, we’re very pleased with the underlying performance of the business and the revenue growth is stronger than what the guidance might imply.

Stanley: And Peter, you’re guiding OpEx flattish sequentially, despite the big revenue downtick. Are there any one-time items in SG&A and R&D in the March quarter? Or is the run rate reflective of investments for future opportunities?

Cook: We’re willing to make any product that’s a great product. Where our line in the sand is, it’s making something that’s not fantastic.

Markets: Okay. Then my follow up for you Peter is, you mentioned four factors that influenced guidance. In particular, you talked about inventory. I think most investors would conclude then December wasn’t as good as it looked, if you had increases in channel inventory. So I was hoping you could peel off a little bit and talk about the foreign exchange impact and the higher deferrals. Is there a way to quantify that impact on the guidance in March in particular?

Securities: Just a quick follow up to some of your comments about demand mix being significantly different, or different than what you thought, in the quarter. Do you have any thoughts on why it was so much different than what you expected it to be?

Cook: I think the 5S, people are really intrigued with Touch ID. It’s a major feature that has excited people. And I think that, associated with the other things that are unique to the 5S, got the 5S to have a significant amount more attention and a higher mix of sales.

Cook: What Luca is saying is that we’re working on things that are things that you see that we’re shipping today but that we’re working on things that you can’t see today.

Morgan: What’s your user data kind of telling you right now in terms of the replacement cycle? Are you starting to see a lot of heritage Apple users now refresh their iPhone every three years plus, or their iPad every two years plus, versus previous? Are you seeing any major changes there?

Cook: I would just say, innovation is deeply embedded in everybody here, and there’s still so much of the world that is full of very complex products, etc. We have zero issue coming up with things we want to do that we think we can disrupt in a major way. The challenge is always to focus to the very few that deserve all of our energy. And we’ve always done that, and we’re continuing to do that.

Cook: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon, everyone. We have a lot to share with you over the next hour, and I’d like to start right away with the very strong results we’re reporting for the March quarter. We generated $45.6 billion in revenue, which was ahead of our expectations and represents a new March quarter record, and is our strongest non-holiday quarter ever. Our underlying business performance was even stronger than our reported results imply. When you take into account changes in channel inventory this year versus last year and foreign exchange had wins that we faced in several of our international markets. Setting foreign exchange and inventory changes aside, our underlying growth rate would have been close to double digits. These strong revenue results combined with our best gross margin percentage since September of 2012 resulted in earnings per share growth of 15%, which is our highest earnings growth rate in the last six quarters. iPhone was key in driving our stronger-than-expected results. We sold almost 44 million iPhones, setting a new March quarter record. These stronger results were broad-based both from a product point of view with demand for each of our three iPhone stronger than its predecessor and from a geographic standpoint. We gained smartphone share in many developed and emerging markets including the U.S., the UK, Japan, Canada, Germany, France, Vietnam and Greater China, just to mention a few. In fact, we established a new all-time record for total iPhone sales in the BRIC countries. iTunes software and services revenue continue to grow at a double-digit rate, thanks to an incredible ecosystem and our very large, loyal and engaged customer base. With its strong momentum in growing profitability, iTunes is a very important driver of our business not only here in the United States, but around the world. We now have an almost 800 million iTunes accounts, most of these with credit cards. This is a staggering number. We continue to gain share in the personal computer market as well. We defied industry trends again by growing while the market contracted. Our bold decision to make OS X free has resulted in the largest ever percentage of the Mac installed base running on the latest version of the operating system just months after its release. iPad sales came in at the high end of our expectations, but we realized they were below analyst estimates, and I would like to proactively address, why we think there was a difference. We believe almost all of the difference can be explained by two factors. First, in the March quarter last year, we significantly increased iPad channel inventory, while this year we significantly reduced it. Luca will go into more detail about this later. Second, we ended the December quarter last year with a substantial backlog with iPad mini that was subsequently shipped in the March quarter, whereas we ended the December quarter this year near supply demand balance. We continue to believe that the tablet market will surpass the PC market in size within the next few years and we believe that Apple will be a major beneficiary of this trend. When we look at our company performance on a geographic basis, we’re especially proud of our very strong results in Greater China, where we established an all time quarterly revenue record of almost $10 billion including the results from our retail stores. And in Japan, where revenue was up 26% in spite of the foreign exchange headwinds and where our smartphone market share reached an incredible 55%. We are continuing to invest in our retail stores and since our last call, we had opened our first stores in Brazil and Turkey and we now have retail stores in 15 countries around the world. I’m looking forward to welcoming our new retail and online leader, Angela Ahrendts, who will be joining Apple’s Executive Team next week. Stepping back, we are now just passed the halfway mark for fiscal 2014. Our strong March quarter results bring us to total revenues of over $103 billion for the first six months of the year and earnings per share growth close to double-digits. We estimate that over the last six months, we’ve added over $60 million new registered users of our four product categories. Additionally, over two-third’s of people registering an iPad in the last six months, were new to iPad, while over half of the people registering iPhones were new to iPhone. It is wonderful to add tens of millions of first time Apple product users, especially considering the strong halo effect, we’ve seen over and over again in our history. Customers who have a great experience with their first Apple products, often become loyal and happy owners of the multiple Apple products overtime. As always, I’d like to thank our talented employees who make these results possible through their creativity and passion they bring to their work everyday. And I’d like to thank our hundreds of millions of customers for their loyalty and enthusiasm and for continually inspiring us to surprise and delight them. In addition to our quarterly results, we are also announcing an update to our capital return program today, and I’d like to share a few thoughts about our guiding principles for capital allocation and our conclusion on the changes we are making for this year. Apple has created tremendous value for shareholders by developing great products that enrich people’s lives and that will always be our top priority and driving force. We’ll continue to innovate by investing in research and development and capitalizing on our strengths in hardware, software and services. We’ll keep investing in our supply chains promote scale and efficiencies, expanding our global presence by building retail stores, investing in marketing and distribution and extending our reach into new markets. We are expanding Apple’s products and services into new categories and we are not going to under invest in this business. We are also investing through acquisitions and we’ve acquired 24 companies in the past 18 months. To invest organically and to make acquisition strategically, we need to maintain financial flexibility. With this framework in mind, Apple’s Board and management team, will do capital allocation regularly and we solicit input on our program from a broad base of shareholders. We very much appreciate all of the input that so many of our shareholders have provided us on how the best to deploy our cash. We’ve continued to seek investor input going forward and we’ll update you on our conclusions around this time each year. This regular process allows us to continually evaluate return of capital in light of the most current information available and it enables us to be thoughtful about the size, mix and pace of the program. We continue to be in the fortunate position of being able to return significant capital to shareholders. We started doing so two years ago when we announced our first program of $45 billion and we more than doubled the program last April to $100 billion. Today, we are announcing that we are increasing the size of our program once again with an addition of over $30 billion for a total program size of over $130 billion. The size and pace of our program is unprecedented and we still expect to complete it by December of 2015 as we announced last year. We think very deliberately about how much and in which way to return cash to our shareholders. We decided to continue to allocate the vast majority of the incremental capital return to share repurchases because we believe our current stock price does not reflect the full value of the company. The size of the share back increases the signal of the Board and the management team’s strong confidence in the future of Apple. We also understand the importance of the dividend to many of our investors and we are increasing it for the second time in less than two years. We believe this is a meaningful increase for those shareholders who value income and we are planning for annual dividend increases going forward. Now, I would like to turn the call over to Luca for the details of our quarterly results as well as more information about our capital return program.

Maestri: Thank you Tim and good afternoon everyone. As Tim said revenue for the March quarter was $45.6 billion, up $2 billion or 5% from a year ago and above our guidance range. Sales in each of our major product categories were at the high end of our expectations or better and the vast majority of the revenue upside came from strong sales of iPhone. Gross margin was 39.3%, also above our guidance range and operating margin was $15.6 billion, representing 29.8% of revenue. Net income was $10.2 billion translating to diluted earnings per share of $11.62. For details by product, I’d like to start with iPhone. We sold 43.7 million iPhones which was a March quarter record. That’s an increase of 6.3 million iPhones over last year that represents 17% growth. The addition of China Mobile coupled with great response to our more affordably priced iPhone 4S led to an all time quarterly record for iPhone sales in Greater China. We look forward to broadening our relationship with China Mobile as they expand points of sale and continue to build out their 4G network. In Japan, iPhone sales were up over 50% year-over-year resulting in significant market share gains, as Tim mentioned we’ll try strong growth and share gains in many other major developed markets based on IDCs latest estimates for the March quarter. iPhone also continued to perform exceptionally well in many developing markets. In Greater China, Brazil, Indonesia, Poland and Turkey. iPhone sales grew by strong double-digits year-over-year, and in India and Vietnam sales more than doubled. We exited the quarter with 15.4 million total iPhones in channel inventory, which represents a sequential increase of about 100,000 from the December quarter and left us within our target range of four to six weeks. In the enterprise market progressive organizations are leading the charge to replace legacy devices and systems, and are using iPhone and iOS to drive innovation at their companies. Deutsche Bank has nearly 20,000 iPhones running on its network and has created 40 internal apps that extend the capabilities of its mobile workforce. Siemens have 30,000 iPhones on its network and has deployed over 50 internal apps for field service teams, sales associates and corporate executives for solution that are only possible with iOS and iPhone. We are really happy with the continued growth and strength of the Apple ecosystem. Total revenue from iTunes software and services was $4.6 billion, an increase of 11% year-over-year at an all time quarterly record. Our iTunes stores generated record billings of $5.2 billion in the March quarter, up 24% year-over-year driven by very strong growth in App Store sales. These iTunes billings translated to quarterly iTunes revenue of over $2.6 billion, up 9% from the year ago quarter, and also a new all-time record. Software and services revenue was over $1.9 billion, up 14% from a year ago. App Store momentum is incredibly strong as cumulative app downloads at 70 billion, 87% of iOS devices are now running iOS 7 and our highly engaged users are a great audience for developers. According to App Annie, the App Store generated 85% more global revenue than Google Play in the March quarter despite the differences in unit market share between iOS and Android devices. Now, I’d like to talk about the Mac. We saw 4.1 million Macs compared to just under 4 million in the year ago quarter. Thanks to strong performance from MacBook Pro and MacBook Air and Macs have now gained global market share for 31 of the last 32 quarters. Response to Mavericks has been great, and we are very proud of the fact that so many of our Mac customers are taking advantage of the most advanced and secured experience possible. We ended the quarter with Mac channel inventory slightly below our four to five week target range. Turning to iPad, we saw 16.4 million units. As Tim explained earlier, our iPad results and the comparison to the March quarter last year were heavily influenced by channel inventory changes. Specifically, this year we saw 16.4 million iPads into our channels and sold through almost 17.5 million reducing our channel inventory by 1.1 million units. Last year we sold over 19.4 million iPads into our channels and sold through 18 million and therefore increased channel inventory by 1.4 million units. As a result, the year-over-year sell through decline was only 3% compared to the sell in decline of 16%. We exit the March quarter with 5.1 million units of iPad channel inventory, which left us within our target range of four to six weeks. iPad continues to lead all other tablets by far in terms of user engagement, size of ecosystem, customer satisfaction and e-commerce. A recent study by Chitika Insights found that iPad users in North America generate almost four times the web traffic of all Android tablet users combined. In a February survey, ChangeWave measured a 98% customer satisfaction rate for both iPad Air and iPad Mini with Retina display. And also found that among people planning to purchase a tablet within 90 days two-thirds plan to buy an iPad. iPad continues to allow companies around the world to reimagine the way they use technology to drive efficiency and improve employee satisfaction. Thousands of iPads are used at FedEx everyday. In an industry where efficiency is critical FedEx pilots and maintenance crews around the world use iPad to transform operational processes and save the company millions of dollars. Eli Lilly has deployed over 20,000 iPads and 50 internal apps as part of a laptop replacement program that dramatically increased the productivity and capabilities of its employees. The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs is on its way to deploying iPads to 11,000 providers to transform the way doctors and patients interact. As part of this initiative, a suite of applications is being developed to allow quick access to real-time secure medical information. In education, according to the latest data published by IDC, iPad has over 95% share of the U.S. education tablet market as teachers and students increasingly benefit from the growing range of engaging iBooks, textbooks and solutions that are helping to transform the education experience. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $150.6 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential decline of $8.3 billion. Our domestic cash was $18.4 billion at the end of the March quarter, a sequential decline of $16 billion and $132.2 billion or 88% of our total cash was offshore. Cash flow from operations was very strong at $13.5 billion for the quarter. In total, we executed almost $21 billion worth of capital return activities during the March quarter. First, we launched our third accelerated share repurchase program in late January through which we will acquire an additional $12 billion of Apple stock. We received an initial delivery of 19.2 million shares under this ASR and we received a balance of shares due when the program concludes by December of this year. Second, we paid $2.7 billion in dividends in February. And finally, we spent $6 billion on open market purchases of 11.4 million shares throughout the March quarter. At the end of March, we also settled our second ASR program, which was launched in April of last year, resulting in the retirement of an additional 1.1 million shares. I would like now to go into more detail about the expansion of our capital return program that we’re announcing today. Let me start by summarizing the progress that we’ve made on the program we updated a year ago. By the end of March 2014, we’ve already taken action of $46 billion of the current $60 billion share repurchase authorization, over 75% of the program with seven quarters remaining to its completion. We have acted aggressively and opportunistically and have delivered on our intention to return capital to shareholders at a fast pace. Including dividends and net-share-settlements, we’ve taken action on $66 billion of total $100 billion program announced last year. Today we’ve taken additional steps that will increase the overall size of the program from $100 billion to over $130 billion within the same timeframe of December 2015 as before. There are two elements to the expansion of the program. First, we’re increasing the size of our share repurchase authorization from $60 billion to $90 billion. We are very confident in Apple’s future, and we believe our current stock price does not reflect the full value of the Company. That’s why the vast majority of our capital program continues to be allocated to share repurchases. We will also continue to net-share-settle, restricted stock units and expect to utilize about $1 billion of cash annually for that purpose. Second, our Board has declared a dividend of $3.29 per common share payable on May 15, 2014 to shareholders of record as of May 12, 2014. That represents an increase of about 8% in our quarterly dividend. We understand the importance of dividend increases to many of our investors, and we’re increasing the dividend for the second time in less than two years. We are planning for continued annual increases and we’re very proud that Apple is one of the largest dividend payers in the world, with annual payments of $11 billion. All our capital return activities must be funded by domestic cash which as I mentioned was about $18 billion as we exited the March quarter, and down from $39 billion in the quarter that we paid our first dividend. We would maintain sufficient domestic liquidity to grow the business and execute capital expenditures and acquisitions. Thanks to Apple’s strong growth in international expansion in recent years. We have built substantial offshore cash balances to repatriate our fall in cash on the current U.S. tax law, we will incur significant cash tax consequences and we don’t believe this would be in the best interest of our shareholders. We continue to advocate for comprehensive corporate tax reform and streamlining the tax code which we believe would be of great benefit to the U.S. economy. To execute our updated capital return program in a tax efficient manner and leverage our very strong balance sheet, we intend to access the debt markets again. We plan to be active in both the domestic and international bond markets during 2014 for an amount of term debt financing similar to what we issued in 2015, with a break down between markets currencies and tenures to be determined over the course of the year and subject to prevailing conditions in each market. We have also prepared ourselves to access the commercial paper market given the substantial short term liquidity and flexibility that this channel can provide. Now, as we move ahead into the June quarter, I’d like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $36 billion and $38 billion compared to $35.3 billion in the year ago quarter. We expect gross margins to be between 37% and 38%. We expect OpEx to be between $4.4 billion and $4.5 billion. We are continuing to invest heavily in R&D for current revenue generating categories as well as future products and services. We expect OI&E to be about $200 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.1%. And now, I’d like to turn it back to

Cook: : Finally, before we start the Q&A, I would like to take a minute to talk about my dear friend and colleague Peter Oppenheimer. As you know, Peter will be transitioning from the CFO role in June. Peter has been Apple’s CFO for 10 years and the list of his accomplishments is immense. Apple is now more than 20 times the size it was when Peter became our CFO and his expertise, leadership and incredibly hard work had been instrumental to the company’s success. I’d like to thank him very publicly for his contributions to Apple, from the very bottom of my heart and wish him all the best in his approaching retirement at the end of September. And I’d also like to recognize him that he has never missed guidance in the 10 years as CFO which must be an all-time record for CFOs. We’re really happy and fortunate to have someone with Luca’s talent on Board to replace Peter. He has over 25 years of experience, building and leading finance teams in global companies and has an exceptionally broad international background, which you might be able to detect from his accent. He’s been managing most of Apple’s financial functions since coming on Board last year and has done an outstanding job. I’m looking forward to working with Luca even closer as Apple’s next CFO. With that, I’d like to open the call for questions.

C: Thank you. Tim, I understand that the iPad is not as weak as it appears on a sell-through basis, but still it’s relatively flat over the last year in terms of sell-through. What are your thoughts in terms of why that is and can that accelerate with Office on the iPad going forward?

Cook: It’s a good question. Let’s talk about iPad a little more than we did in the comments. When I backup from iPad, here’s what I see. It absolutely has been the fastest growing product in Apple’s history and it’s been the only product that we’ve ever made that was instantly a hit in three of our key markets, from consumer to business including the enterprise and education. And so, if you really look at it in just four years after we launched the very first iPad, we’ve sold over 210 million, which is more than we or I think anyone thought was possible at that period of time. And it’s interesting to note that that’s almost twice as many iPhones that we’ve sold in a comparable period of time, and over seven times as many iPods as we’ve sold in the period of time. So, I think it’s important to kind of to put that in perspective. We’ve come a long way very, very quickly. Looking at it by market a bit, which I think is important. I think Luca mentioned a little bit of this in his comments. In the education market in the U.S., we have a 95% share. And so the focus in education is on penetration, is on getting more schools to buy and my belief is the match has been lit, and it’s very clear to the educators that have studied this is that student achievement is higher with iPad in the classroom than without it. And so I’m confident we’ve got a really great start in education far beyond the U.S. now. This is happening in many, many parts of the world. In the enterprise market, we’re seeing virtually all, 98% of the Fortune 500 that using iPad. And we’re seeing, according to Good Technology who looks at activations of tablets, the latest data we have from them is that 91% of the activation of tablets in enterprise were iPads. And so this is also an astonishing number and many of those enterprises are writing apps that are key proprietary apps for running that business, and this is great for that company because they’re more productive as a result of that. And so once again, just like in education in a way, what we have to do in enterprise is focus on penetration. It has to be deeper and broader. But in terms of having people begin the process, beginning writing apps, we’re doing a pretty good job of that. In the retail market, if you look at the U.S. as a proxy, the NPD numbers for March just came out a few days ago and we had 46% share and embedded in that 46%, there’s a lot of things in there that I personally wouldn’t put in the same category as iPad and that are weighing the share down. It’s certainly a market we wouldn’t play in and a type of product you would never see an Apple brand on. So we feel like we’re doing well there. Office, I believe does help. It’s very unclear to say how much. I believe if it would have been done earlier, it would have been even better for Microsoft frankly. There is a lots of alternatives out there from a productivity point of view, some of which we brought to the market, some of which many, many innovative companies have brought. But I do see that Office is still a very key franchise in the enterprise, in particular. And I think having it on iPad is good, and I wholeheartedly welcome Microsoft to the App Store to sell Office. Our customers are clearly responding in a good way that it’s available. So, I do think it helps us particularly in the enterprise area. The other things you look at on iPad that are just blow away as customer sat is 98. There is almost nothing in the world with a 98% customer sat and the intention to buy numbers look good with two-thirds of the people planning to buy a tablet or planning to buy an iPad. The usage numbers are off the chart, far and exceeding Android tablets, four times the web traffic of all Android tablets combined. And so, when I backup from all of these, I feel great. That doesn’t mean that every quarter, every 90 days is going to be a number that everybody is thrilled with. But what it means to me is that the trend over the arc of time that things look very, very good, that iPad has a great future. And of course the thing that drives us more than any of this are the next iPads if you will, the things that are in the pipeline, the things that we can do to make the product even better and there is no shortage of work going in on that nor any shortage of ideas. And so when I backup from all of this, I can’t help but still be extremely excited about where we are. I think we did a reasonable job of explaining what we think the disconnect was between what we had expected, which we hit it at the high end of our expectation and the street's view of this one. I believe the vast majority of it is that first thing was just channel inventory that maybe we should have been even clearer on last quarter to take into account. But I'm very bullish on iPad. Steven M. Milunovich –

C: Okay, very complete thank you. One other question, when you look at Google and Amazon and Facebook, they've very much diversified their business over time in a way that one has rarely seen. Apple, sort of the opposite. People say you ought to buy this or that and you'll do acquisitions, but you're obviously very focused. Is that because it's just a management philosophy of wanting to be more focused than some of these other companies? Or is there something about Apple's products that particularly being more hardware oriented that kind of prevents you from saying, yes, let's go make TV shows or let's go often do something else, even though you probably have the money and the technical capability to do all these things?

Cook: Good questions, Gene. The reason that I stripped off the hobby label is that when you look at the sales of the Apple TV box itself, and you look at a content that was bought directly off of Apple TV for 2013, that number was over $1 billion. And so, it didn’t feel right to me to refer to something that’s over $1 billion as a hobby. Also from an investment point of view, we continue to make the product better and better. And so it doesn’t feel right from that point of view either. We had HBO GO already on Apple TV and you have to authenticate in order to use it, but you have to do that with Amazon service as well from my brief read of their announcement. I think they in addition to that got some older content from HBO to put on there. I haven't had a chance to evaluate exactly what it is and don't have a personal point of view on that yet. But if I look broadly at the content on Apple TV, I think it compares extremely favorable to the content that is on the Amazon box. We've sold now, Gene, about 20 million of the Apple TV, and so we've got a pretty large installed base there. And I'm feeling quite good about that business and where it can go. Gene Munster –

Cook: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon, everyone. It’s been a very busy and exciting time at Apple and I'd like to review some of the highlights of our June quarter. We hosted our best ever Worldwide Developer’s Conference last month with over 20 million people from around the world watching our keynote session, which is the a record. We've had overwhelming response from customers and developers to the new features we previewed in OS X Yosemite and iOS 8. Yosemite has been redesigned with a fresh look and powerful new apps and iOS 8 is the biggest release since the launch of the App Store. With powerful continuity features, these upcoming releases will allow Macs and iOS devices to work together in even smarter ways. Customers can start on activity like writing an email on one device and pass it to another, picking up where they left off without missing a beat. They will even be able to make and receive iPhone calls on their Mac with just a click. These are features that only Apple can deliver. With iOS 8, we have opened over 4000 APIs providing more flexibility and opportunity for developers than ever before. iOS 8 provides developers with amazing new frameworks, enables wide use of Touch ID to securely authenticate users within apps and lets developers further customize the user experience with major extensibility features such as third-party keyboards. We have also introduced Swift, an innovative new programming language for both iOS and OS X. Swift is the result of the latest research on programming languages, combined with decades of experience within building Apple platforms. It makes writing code interactive and fun, eliminates entire classes of unsafe code and generates apps that run lightning fast. It's easy to learn, allowing even more people to dream big and create whole new categories of apps. We believe our new OS releases, combined with Swift will result in a huge leap forward for the Apple ecosystem and we can’t wait to what developers will create with Yosemite, iOS 8 and Swift. When we introduced iOS 7 years ago, it was a revolutionary operating system for iPhone. Over the years we've extended it to the iPod family with iPod Touch and later to a tablet form factor with iPad. An explosion of apps, accessories and services for these devices has created an incredibly vibrant ecosystem. We’re extending iOS in even more dimensions as customers around the world make iPhones and iPads an essential part of their lives, at home, at school, at work and on the go. We’re putting a huge effort into delivering the best experience to our customers wherever they use iOS. That includes a safe and intuitive user interface for driving, called CarPlay, which is being integrated by 29 major car brands including Audi, BMW, Ford, General Motors, Honda, Hyundai, Mercedes, Toyota and Volvo; and after-market systems like Pioneer and Alpine. We’ve created a new tool for developers called HealthKit, which allows health and fitness apps work to together and empowers customers to choose what health data they share. We're taking the first steps in this area in collaboration with the Mayo clinic, whose new apps can automatically receive data from a blood pressure app, for example and share it with a physician, or a nutrition app can inform fitness apps how many calories are being consumed each day. Our ARM health app will provide an easy to read dashboard of all health and fitness data. We're enabling new ways to control light and doors and thermostats and other connected devices around the house using Siri with the HomeKit feature of iOS 8. And in the Enterprise, we are including new security, productivity and device management features in iOS 8. We forged a relationship with IBM to deliver a new class of mobile business solutions to enterprise customers around the world. We are working together to provide companies access to the power of Big Data analytics, right on every employee's iPhone or iPad. Using Swift, we will collaborate to bring over 100 Mobile First apps to enterprise clients, each addressing a specific industry need or opportunity. This is a radical step for Enterprise and opens up a large market opportunity for Apple but more importantly, it’s great for productivity and creativity of our enterprise customers. From the pocket to the car, to the workplace, home and gym, we have a very large vision of what iOS can be and we're incredibly excited about our plans. Turning to our financial results, today we are reporting record June quarter revenue, thanks to the very strong performance of iPhone, Mac and the continued growth of revenue from the Apple ecosystem. Our teams executed brilliantly during the quarter with earnings per share up 20% year-over-year, our highest growth rate in seven quarters. We sold over 35 million iPhones, setting a new third quarter record. We generated healthy growth in our entry priced, mid-tier and lead iPhone categories. I'm especially happy about our progress in the BRIC countries, where iPhone sales were up a very strong 55% year-over-year. We also had a record June quarter for Mac sales, with growth of 18% year-over-year in a market that is shrinking by 2% according to IDC’s latest estimate. Demand has been very strong for our portables in particular and we've have had a great customer response to the new higher performance, lower priced MacBook Air. It was another strong performance for the App Store and the other services contributing to the thriving Apple ecosystem. In fact for the first nine months of this fiscal year, the line item that we call iTunes software and services has been the fastest growing part of our business. iTunes billings grew 25% year-over-year in the June quarter and reached an all-time quarterly high, thanks to the very strong results from the App Store. We're continuing to invest in our incredible ecosystem, which is a huge asset for Apple and a very important differentiator of our customer experience. iPad sales met our expectations but we realized they didn’t meet many of yours. Our sales were gated in-part by a reduction in channel inventory and in-part by market softness in certain parts of the world. For example IDC’s latest estimate indicates a 5% overall decline in the U.S. tablet market, as well as a decline in the Western European tablet market in the June quarter. But what’s most important to us is that customers are enjoying their iPads and using them heavily. In a survey conducted in May by ChangeWave, iPad Air registered a 98% customer satisfaction rate, while iPad Mini with retina display received an astonishing 100% customer satisfaction rate. The survey also found that among people planning to purchase a tablet within 90 days, 63% plan to buy an iPad and our own data indicates that more than half of customers purchasing an iPad are buying their very first iPad. Another recent study by Custora found that iPad accounts for 80% of all U.S. tablet based e-commerce purchases. We're very bullish about the future of the tablet market and we're confident that we can continue to bring significant innovation to this category through hardware, software and services. We think our partnership with IBM, providing a new generation of mobile enterprise applications, designed with iPad’s legendary ease of use and backed by IBM’s cloud services and data analytics will be one such catalyst for future iPad growth. Looking ahead, we are very excited about our agreement to purchase Beats Electronics and Beats Music. We think its part of Apple’s DNA and we think the addition of Beats team will be great for music lovers. Beats provides Apple with a fantastic subscription music service, access to rare talent and a fast growing line up of products that we can build upon. Not counting Beats, we've completed 29 acquisitions since the beginning of fiscal year 2013 including five since the end of the March quarter and we have brought some incredible technology and more importantly some incredible talent into Apple in the process. We are hard at work and investing heavily on exciting opportunities across our business and we have an incredible pipeline of new products and services that we can’t wait to show you. With that I would like to turn the call over to

Maestri: Thank you, Tim and good afternoon everyone. We set a new June quarter record for revenue at $37.4 billion, up $2.1 billion or 6% year-over-year. This result was towards the high end of our guidance range, despite a reduction in channel inventory for both iPhone and iPad. The revenue growth was driven by strong sales of iPhones and Macs, as well as the continued great performance of iTunes softwares and services. Gross margin was 39.4%, above our guidance range and operating margin was $10.3 billion, representing 27.5% of revenue. Net income was $7.7 billion, translating to diluted earnings per share of $1.28, a 20% year-over-year increase. For details by product, I'd like to start with iPhone. We sold 35.2 million iPhones, an increase of 4 million over last year, representing 13% growth. As Tim mentioned, iPhone sales grew well across all three of our entry-price, mid-tier and lead product categories. In the U.S., iPhone accounts for 41.9% of the smartphone subscriber base according to the latest data from ComScore, up from 41.3% in the previous measurement period. Also based on the latest survey by ChangeWave, iPhone earned a 97% customer satisfaction rate and among responders planning purchase a smartphone within 90 days, 50% planned to purchase an iPhone, up from 42% in the March quarter and 44% a year ago. iPhone sales were at the high end of our expectations, despite new product rumors that we believe resulted in purchase delay. In addition, tax increases and the regulatory environment in Japan affected smartphone sales in what has been one of iPhone’s fastest growing markets in recent quarters. Considering these factors, the performance of iPhone was even more impressive in the June quarter and it boosts our confidence for the future. We reduced iPhone channel inventory by about 150,000 from the end of the March quarter, leaving us within our target range of four to six weeks. Apple continues to innovate through hardware, software and services to make iPhone the best smartphone for business. Today, companies have equipped millions of employees with iPhones and they are seeing tremendous benefits in productivity, employee satisfaction and profitability. For instance medical device leader Medtronic has developed over 175 internal iOS apps for over 16,500 iPhones used by its employees to facilitate sales, improve productivity and ensure that essential marketing materials are up to date. Throughout the global offices of Nestle, the largest food company in the world, over 25,000 iPhones are accessing corporate networks, improving communication and connecting employees to critical internal resources. And at NASA over 26,000 iPhones are in use by scientists, flight crew members, technicians and researchers. Turning to iPad, we sold 13.3 million units, compared to 14.6 million in the June quarter last year. iPad sales grew overall in the developing markets with particularly strong year-over-year growth in the Middle-East, where iPad sales were up 64%, in China where they grew 51%, and in India, where they were up 45%. This growth was more than offset by lower sales in more mature markets. We reduced iPad channel inventory by 500,000 from the end of the March quarter, which left us within our target range of four to six weeks. In the Enterprise, global companies are using iPad to improve customer service, boost work and productivity and enhance critical processes. iPad continues to be the standard for teams across the airline industry. Qantas Airlines has over 15,000 iPads deployed to pilots as well as cabin, customer service and ground crews to enhance key processes across the daily operations and governments are deploying thousands of iPads worldwide. One of the largest examples is Sweden, where over 100,000 iPads are being used by local government offices across the country. In education, iPad remains the tablet of choice with 85% share of the U.S. education tablet market according to the latest published estimate from IDC. We’ve now sold 13 million iPads to education customers globally. We’re bringing teachers and students great new tools to build an experience educational count into an iPad. As of this month, teachers using the free iTunes U app can create, edit and manage entire courses that are on iPad for the first time and students can discover new ways to collaborate, including the ability to start class discussions and ask questions right from their iPad. Next, I'd like to talk about the Mac. We sold 4.4 million Macs, compared to under 3.8 million in the year ago quarter, an increase of 18% year-over-year and a new June quarter record. The increase was driven by portables, thanks to very strong growth of MacBook Air. We achieved strong double digit Mac growth across many countries, including the U.S. Canada, Mexico, the UK, Germany, France, Australia, China, India and the Middle-East. This growth is particularly impressive, given the contraction of the overall PC market. Macs have now gained global market share for 32 of the last 33 quarters. Macs performed well in the U.S. education buying season with double-digit growth in the K to 12 market, driven primarily by large deployments of MacBook Air. The Shawnee Mission School District in Kansas chose Apple to provide an entire solution that will equip every teacher with a MacBook Air and an iPad Air, every high school student with a MacBook Air and every middle school and elementary student with an iPad. The Rowan-Salisbury School System in North Carolina is deploying thousands of MacBook Airs to students and teachers in grades 9 to 12 as part of the district's digital learning initiatives. We ended the quarter with Mac channel inventory slightly below our four to five week target range. The Apple ecosystem continues to grow and thrive. Total revenue from iTunes software and services was $4.5 billion, an increase of 12% year-over-year. Our iTunes stores generated all time record billings of $5.4 billion in the June quarter, up 25% year-over-year, driven by very strong growth in App Store sales. These items billings translated to quarterly iTunes revenue of almost $2.6 billion, up 8% from the year ago quarter. Software and services revenue was $1.9 billion, up 19% from a year ago. App Store momentum remains very strong and cumulative app downloads has topped 75 billion. We continue be amazed by our vibrant and diverse developer community and we are extremely proud that our developers have now earned over 20 billion for sales of their apps through the App Store, nearly half of which have been earned in the past 12 months. This number truly stands out among our competition as our developers continue to benefit from the broad reach and powerful design of the App Store, coupled with Apple’s large, loyal and very engaged customer base. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $164.5 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $13.9 billion. Our domestic cash was $26.8 billion at the end of the June quarter, a sequential increase of $8.3 billion and $137.7 billion or 84% of our total cash was offshore. Cash flow from operations was $10.3 billion. We executed another very successful debt offering in April, issuing a total of 12 billion in notes across 3, 5, 7, 10 and 30 year maturities. In addition, during the quarter, we entered the commercial paper market for the first time with $2 billion in short-term obligations outstanding as of the end of June. We also continued to execute our shareholder return program with $8.3 billion of capital returned to inventors during the June quarter. We spent $5 billion to repurchase 59 million Apple shares to open market transactions. We paid almost $2.9 billion in dividends and equivalents and utilized over $400 million to net share settle vesting employee RSUs. We've now taken action on over $74 billion of our $130 billion capital return program, including $51 billion in share repurchases with six quarters remaining to its completion. And finally our Board has declared a dividend of $0.47 per common share payable on August 14, 2014 to shareholders of record as of record as of August 11, 2014. Now as we move ahead into September quarter, I’d like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $37 billion and $40 billion, compared to $37.5 billion in the year ago quarter. We expect gross margin to between 37% and 38%. We expect OpEx to be between $4.75 billion and $4.85 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $250 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.1%. Finally, we expect the Beats transaction to close this quarter and we expect the acquisition to be accreted to our earnings in our fiscal 2015.

Paxton: Thank you, Luca. And we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up please.

Maestri: Yes, Katy, it was obviously a surprise also to us. We were expecting obviously a loss in leverage from the sequential declining revenue which obviously happened. We also expect that some unfavorable mix, which also happens -- it's typical as we move away from the launch quarter. And we were expecting some cost improvements. These cost improvements came in. They came in stronger than we were anticipating. The commodity markets continue to be favorable, the product quality continues to be excellent, our teams executed really, really well. And all these things came together at the same time and it was a very nice surprise for us. As we look forward into Q4, yes, we’ve guided to 37% to 38%. Again, the mix is the normal mix that we see as we continue to move through the product cycle. And obviously in Q4, we got some transition costs because we’re expecting a very busy fall. We're bit excited about what we've got in the pipeline. And that’s the reason why we guided to that range.

Maestri: So our guidance, Katy is that -- we put our numbers that we believe at this point in time with all the information that is available to us, we're going to land within. So we take into account the fact that we’ve seen some purchase delays for executing Q3, but we have seen some safe trends in certain geographies. That continues to happen. And what you see this quarter is that our guidance range is $3 billion, as opposed to $2 billion during the third quarter, just to take into account the fact that we got many moving pieces.

Sachs: With the pockets of market we just noted for tablets, could you give us some more detail on how you are thinking about the category longer term, and in particular in the context of your usage comments, how are you thinking about the competitive landscape now and how that may evolve? And then I guess, related to that, what do you think to be the next driver of renewed growth for the category?

Sachs: One more question if I could. You've had obviously great performance in the BRIC countries and you've touched on China for few categories. Can you talk about the overall demand environment you saw for China in the quarter? Obviously there's some seasonal factors to consider but how should we think about your performance versus your expectations and how you are thinking about it for the rest of the calendar year?

Cook: China, honestly was surprising to us that it was -- we thought it would be strong but it well went past what we thought. We came in at 26% of revenue growth, including retail and if you look at the units, the unit growth was really off the charts across the board. I found 48% off that compares to a market estimate of 24%. So growing it two times the market. iPad was up as well, as I've mentioned before. The Mac was up 39% and that’s versus a market in China that’s also contracting along with markets in most parts of the world and China was projected to contract by 5%. And so we're seeing some substantial strength there and the thing that’s actually growing the most is the iTunes software and services category, which has the App Store and et cetera and that area is almost doubling year-over-year. And so it’s very, very exciting what we're seeing there. We are still in the process of rolling out along with our partner China Mobile, the TD-LTE into more cities and we're still in early going on that. That just started in January as you know. And my understanding is that later this year there will be a license for the other operators to begin shipping

Bernstein: I have one for Luca and one for Tim please. Luca, I wanted to revisit the gross margin question. You talked about guidance for next quarter, that the drivers of the sequential decline being a normal mix through the cycle on transition cost. Your guidance to the midpoint is down 190 basis points in gross margin, last year in Q4 gross margins were up 10 basis points sequentially in fiscal Q4 and the product transition issues or cycle issues that you alluded to seem essentially identical. So I'd like to try and understand what might make this Q4 different let’s say than last Q4?

Cook: We have no plans to change the rules with Enterprise. Some enterprises like proprietary apps that they do not want to offer to others and so we obviously have a way for them to distribute those into their enterprise or just the employees that they want to and so I'm not worried about changing that. We’re also taking friction out of the system and not adding it. Again, the big thing for us is getting the penetration number, I think getting our product, iPhones and iPads and Macs in more people hands and we think there is a huge opportunity in

Cook: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon, everyone and thanks for joining us. Since we spoke in July, it's been an exciting and very busy time, so we have lots of great things to talk about today. Just last month, we launched the biggest advancements in iPhone's history with iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. These iPhones are the best we have ever created and customers absolutely love them. Our operational team has done an extraordinary job executing the manufacturing ramp throughout the entire supply chain. Today we've launched in 32 countries including China and our new iPhones will be shifting in 69 countries and territories by the end of this month, making this our fastest and most successful iPhone launch ever. Demand for the new iPhones has been staggering and geographically broad-based markedly higher in every single country where we've launched compared to the iPhone 5s a year ago. We're working hard to fill orders as fast as possible and we're on track to be in more than 115 countries by the end of December. Last month we introduced two new categories; the first is Apple Pay, an entirely new way to pay for things in stores and in apps. It makes mobile payments easier, more secure and more private. Apple Pay went live today and now making purchases and participating stores happens with just a touch of a finger. Paying within apps is as easy as selecting Apple Pay and placing a finger on Touch ID. Today Apple Pay supports credit and debit cards from the three major payment networks and the top U.S. banks and over 500 additional banks have signed on and will be supporting Apple Pay beginning this year and early next year. Apple Pay is being supported by many of the nation's top retailers and we continue to sign more retailers. The second new category is Apple Watch, our most personal device ever and one that has already captured the world's imagination. We can't wait to get Apple Watch to customers beginning in early calendar 2015. We'll be providing more details on Apple Watch as we get closer to the shipment day. Last week we launched the new iPad Air 2 and iPad Mini 3 with innovations that make them dramatically better than previous generation and the stunning new iMac with a Retina 5K display. We released iOS 8 last month and our customers are enjoying new ways to use their iPhone, iPad or iPod Touch with intuitive new features and groundbreaking security. Last week, we also released OS X Yosemite, with an all new design and continuity features that deliver an even more fluid experience across all of our iOS devices and Mac. These introductions reflect years of innovation and hard work by teams all across Apple and they demonstrate the seamless integration of hardware, software and services that provides unparallel user experiences for our customers. These are things that only Apple can do. We've also communicated and demonstrated our commitment to respecting and protecting users' privacy with strong encryption and strict policies that govern how our data is handled. Today we're also reporting very strong results for Apple's fourth fiscal quarter. We generated our strongest revenue growth rate in seven quarters far surpassing our expectations we communicated in July and establishing a new record for Apple's September quarter revenue. We're also reporting gross margin of 38% compared to 37% last year, leading to a very strong EPS growth of 20%. Fueled by the launch of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus and strong demand for our previous iPhone models, we set a new September quarter record for iPhone with revenue growth of 21% year-over-year. Demand for iPhone was strong across all geographies with global unit sell-through growth of 26% and we exited the quarter with significant backlog for both iPhone 6 and 6 Plus. We established an all-time quarterly record for Mac sales with revenue growing 18% year-over-year, thanks in particular to the very strong performance of our portables. We're especially proud of our Mac results considering the overall contraction of the global PC market this year and we achieved our highest quarterly market share since 1995. We also set an all-time record for the App Store revenue, thanks to the tremendous momentum and ongoing success of our developer community. App Store revenue grew 36% over last year and cumulative app downloads have now topped 85 billion. These results bring to a close a record breaking fiscal 2014. Over the last four quarters, our products and services have generated a $183 billion in revenues, an increase of $12 billion over last year. We sold 243 million iOS devices and 19 million Macs, both all-time highs. Our revenue from iTunes software and services reached $18 billion, which was more than the annual sales of two thirds of the companies in the Fortune 500 and we generated $6.45 in earnings per share, which is 14% higher than last year and also set a new record. We made big investments in our business and have continued to expand our global footprint. Today we have 437 Apple retail stores in 15 countries and our partners are selling Apple products in hundreds of thousands of locations around the world. We're continuing to invest in developing markets where revenues approached $50 million in fiscal year '14, up 16% over last year and twice the rate of growth of the company overall. We (ph) a landmark partnership with IBM to provide a new generation of mobile enterprise application designed with our products legendary ease of use and backed by IBM's cloud services and data analytics. Our partnership aims to redefine the way work is done, address key industry mobility challenges and sparked true mobile-led business change. Developer teams have been working closely to develop the first wave of Mobile First solutions and these solutions will be ready for customers beginning next month across six sectors; banking, government, insurance, retail, travel and transportation and telecommunication. We brought tremendous new talent and technology into Apple through 20 acquisitions in fiscal '14 including seven alone in the September quarter. We closed the Beats transition in July and we're off to a great start with some wonderful plans we'll share with you in the future. Our strong results continue to generate significant cash and we're extremely happy that this has enabled us to make substantial investments in Apple's future, while retaining -- while returning cash to our shareholders. We had executed aggressively against our share repurchase program, spending $17 billion in the September quarter alone and $45 billion in the last year. In addition to Apple's strong business performance over the past four quarters, I am incredibly proud of all of our work to protect the environment, to advance human rights, to improve working conditions in the supply chain and to change the way teachers teach and students learn. I'd like to thank all of our customers, employees, developers and business partners for making fiscal 2014 Apple's best year yet and I'd like to thank all of our shareholders for their continued support. I could not be more excited about the road ahead in fiscal 2015. With that, I'd like to turn the call over to

Maestri: Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone. During the September quarter we generated record revenue of $42.1 billion, an increase $4.7 billion or 12% year-over-year. These results exceeded our guidance range due to better than expected sales of iPhones and Macs for which customer demand grew strongly year-over-year in all our segments. Gross margin was 38% at the high end of the guidance range, operating margin was $11.2 billion representing 26.5% of revenue. Net income was $8.5 billion, a new September quarter record translating to diluted earnings per share of $1.42, a 20% year-over-year increase. Cash flow from operations was very strong, a $13.3 billion, also a new Q4 record. For details by product, I will start with iPhone. We sold 39.3 million iPhones, an increase of 5.5 million over last year or 16% growth. Underlying demand was even stronger with sell-through growth of 26%. iPhone sales grew across both developed and emerging markets. Unit sales in the U.S. grew 17% year-over-year, and in Western Europe they were up 20%. We saw even stronger growth in Latin America and the Middle East with sales up more than 50% and in Central and Eastern Europe where sales more than doubled. We increased iPhone channel inventory by just under one million units during the September quarter this year, significantly less than the 3.3 million unit increase in the September quarter a year ago. Based on the very strong demand for our new iPhones, this left us below our target range of four to six weeks for channel inventory on a look forward basis. iPhone momentum in enterprise market remains very strong. The latest data published by IDC indicates that iPhone have 69% share of the U.S. commercial smartphone market. Also, In August ChangeWave survey of U.S. corporate IT buyers found that among those planning to purchase smartphones in the December quarter 75% plan to purchase iPhones. An iPhone continues to fuel innovation of companies around the world. Schindler, a leading global escalator and elevator manufacturer has deployed over 20,000 iPhones and 20 customer apps to improve customer engagements for safety and to allow service technicians to access vital documentation, repair and safety functions when they are in the field. Baidu, China's top search provider currently has over 20,000 employees using iPhones and the company has developed over 30 in-house iOS apps to help its employees work more efficiently, track sales leads and manage internal IT infrastructure and processes. Next, I would like to talk about the Mac. We sold 5.5 million Macs, an increase of almost a million over last year. That represents 21% growth year-over-year and an all-time quarterly record. We saw great demand in the back-to-school season for both desktops and portables with especially strong growth for MacBook Pro and MacBook Air. We achieved double-digit Mac growth across most markets around the world, with particularly impressive performance in emerging markets where Mac sales were up 46%. These results are truly remarkable given the contraction in the global PC market and we now gain market share for 33 of the last 34 quarters. We ended the quarter with Mac channel inventory slightly below our four to five week target range. Turning to iPad, we sold 12.3 million units compared to 14.1 million in the September quarter last year. In anticipation of our October new product announcement we reduced iPad channel inventory by 500,000 from the end of the June quarter, which left us within our target range of channel inventory on a look-back basis. iPad sales were consistent with our expectations and we experienced very strong results in Japan where iPad sales were up 46% year-over-year. Customers continue to love their iPads. In an August survey by ChangeWave iPad Mini with retina display earned an incredible 100% satisfaction rate, and among consumers planning to purchase a tablet within 90 days, the survey indicated a 55% plan to buy an iPad. We continue to see some momentum in enterprise for iPad. Progressive IT organizations around the world continue to deploy, manage and develop amazing in-house apps for iPad. Healthcare leader Sanofi has over 25,000 iPads and over 450 in-house apps for sales teams and corporate employees to get their products and information into the hands of doctors and other healthcare providers. Premium eyewear designer Luxottica has deployed over 10,000 iPads to improve how customers experience the size, fit and overall look of eyewear in a retail environment. Importantly, since the announcement of the partnership with IBM hundreds of corporations around the world have expressed interest in MobileFirst solutions and we are actively working with over 50 of them to become foundational client for MobileFirst solutions in their industries. iPad continues to lead the U.S. education tablet market with 90% share based on the latest data from IDC. In the September quarter the St. Paul public school in Minnesota purchased over 22,000 iPad Airs and over 5,000 iPad Minis in the first race of the district's personalized learning through technology plan that will ultimately equip every student with an iPad. We are fully consistent and continue to strive. Our item store generated all time record billings of $5.4 billion in the September quarter, up 22% year-over-year, thanks to the tremendous momentum of the app store. Developers around the world have embraced the iOS platform and keep broadening the appeal of our thoughtfully designed app store to a large, loyal and engaged customer base. Across all of our programs the number of registered app developers has grown by 22% in the last year and we are rapidly approaching 10 million. We are seeing especially strong interest in the enterprise with a number of registered developers is up 39% over a year ago. Our retail stores also generated strong results. Revenue for the quarter was $5.1 billion, up 15% from a year ago and a new September quarter record. We opened 10 new stores and completed the remodels of three stores during the quarter ending with a total of 437 stores, 41% of which are outside the United States. We are projecting a total of approximately 25 new store openings in fiscal '15, about three quarters of which will be outside the U.S. We also plan to remodel about five stores over the course of the year. With an average of 432 stores opened in the September quarter average revenue per store was $11.9 million compared to $10.9 million in the year ago quarter. We hosted 102 million visitors to our stores during the quarter, which translates to over 18,000 visitors per store per week. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $155.2 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential decline of $9.3 billion. We are continue to execute our capital return program aggressively with the total spend of over $20 billion in just the September quarter. We launched our fourth accelerated share repurchase program at the end of August spending $9 billion. We also spent $8 billion to repurchase $81 million Apple's shares to open market transactions, paid $2.8 billion in dividends and equivalence and utilized over $300 million to net share sell vesting employee RSUs. So, we've already taken action on over $94 billion of our $130 billion capital return program including $68 billion in share repurchases with five quarters remaining to its completion. We remained firmly committed to our objective of delivering attractive returns to shareholders through both business performance and return of capital. As we said before, we review our capital allocation regularly. We have solicited feedback on our capital return program from shareholders in the past and we will continue to do so. We plan to report on our conclusions in a timeframe similar to last year. Now, as we move ahead into the December quarter, I'd like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $63.5 billion and $66.5 billion compared to $57.6 billion in the year ago quarter. This represents a double-digit revenue increase despite significant foreign exchange headwinds from the recent strengthening of the U.S. dollar against most currencies. We expect gross margin to be between 37.5% and 38.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $5.4 billion and $5.5 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $325 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.5%. Also today our Board has declared a dividend of $0.47 per common share payable on November 13, 2014, to shareholders of record as of November 10, 2014.

Research: Thank you very much. Good afternoon. My first question is with regard to Apple Pay, which we actually used this afternoon and where it was rolled out it actually worked pretty well which was nice, but could you provide some more color, Tim and Luca, on how you see the business model for Apple? And maybe from a high level perspective, if you see there's more over time becoming a standalone business like you look at iTunes, or is this more just a way to sell incremental product?

Maestri: Yes, Bill let me start with put and takes of margins for Q1. I would say that on the positive we are so pleased with the launch of new phones you might have seen phenomenal. So we think we're going to be getting favorable impact from iPhone mix. Of course, we're also going to be getting some positive leverage from the higher revenues that we guided to and we continue to see fairly favorable commodity environment. So these are the things that are on the positive side. On the negative side I've talked about FX. Obviously we have launched a lot of new products even in the last six weeks and we've got transition costs as we move from current products to new products and that tends to be a headwind. And every time we launch new products, we make them better and what that means is that our cost structures tend to go up when we produce new products. We have a very good track record of taking those cost structures down over time and so when you take the positives and negatives that I have just mentioned that is what gives us the guidance that we just provided.

Sachs: Okay great. And then my second question is, looking at that current supply constraints of the iPhone, could you confirm that your guidance is assuming you will reach supply demand balance before the end of the quarter, I think that's what was implied by your commentary on channel inventory? And related to that, could you give us some more color on what you see as the key bottlenecks at this point for supply on the iPhone side?

Cook: Bill its Tim. The ramp itself is going great. The chances are ever in our history, so I couldn’t be happier with it. That said, today demand is far obstructing supply. It is unclear looking at the data when supply will catch up with demand. And so I don’t want to leave you with a view that we know that we're going to get to a supply-demand balance on both of the new products this quarter because I don’t know that at this point. It's very difficult to gauge demand without first achieving finding the balance and it's clear that as of today, and certainly as of the end of the quarter where you're looking at the data, we're not nearly, we're not close, we're not on the same plan. And -- but that said, I am really confident that supply is going to be great and that's the reason you see incredibly strong guidance that we're giving from $63.5 billion to $66.5 billion. At -- but at this point, it's just very difficult to gauge what the true demand is. When you see it's very unusual to see every country having a marked improvement over the previous year and that's what we're seeing on iPhone. And so, I couldn’t be happier with the way the demand looks. Nancy's comment at the end was meant to tell you that we do not envision as of today being able to achieve the extra inventory in the channel that we believe is needed when you think about the long food chains in some of the emerging markets where the distribution channels are not as official, so that's the purpose of that comment.

Stanley: Thanks. Luca I wonder if you can quantify the currency headwind on gross margin in the December quarter, just because there is a big focus on currency across tech right now and should we expect price harmonization if the dollar remained strong?

S: Okay. And then regarding the strength in Mac and the weakness in iPad I guess, what's the message from the market that you take away from that and does that perhaps at all affect your view of doing a convertible type product which in the past has not kind of an Apple's approach, you tend to like to do very focused products there might be that there is something in between that could be quite successful?

Cook: Let me comment on both the Mac and the iPad. On the Mac it was just absolutely blow-away order. Our best ever, it will result in our highest market share since 1995. It's just absolutely stunning. Get back-to-school season voted and the Mac 1 and carried the day and we're really proud of that. I'm proud of the Mac team. It's clear that the -- all the work that we've put into our Notebooks, on the hardware and the software side is resonating with our customers and I think if you went out to college campuses about now, you will see a lot of Mac and there are lot of new Mac Notebooks there based on the sales. And so that feels fantastic being up 21% in that market that's shrinking it just -- it doesn’t get better than that. For iPad, if I take a step back on iPad, and I know that there is a lot of negative commentary in the market on this, but I have a little different perspective on it. Here's sort of my simple perspective. If you look at, instead of looking at this thing each 90 days, if you back up and look at it, we've sold 237 million in just over four years. That's about twice the number of iPhones that we sold over the first four years of iPhone. If you look at the last 12 months of iPad, we sold 68 million in '13, in fiscal year '13 we sold 71 million. So we were down, but we were down 4% on sell in and the sell-through was a bit better than the negative 4 because we took down channel inventories. And so, to me I view it as a speed bob, not a huge issue. That's said, we want to grow. We don’t like negative numbers on these things and so, looking further in the data, I know that there is a popular view that the market is saturated, but we don’t see that. I can't speak to other people but I do look at our data deeply. And in the last market research data we have is in the June quarter, and let me give you some of this -- the real data that we've got. is that if you look at our top six revenue countries, in the country that’s sold the lowest percentage of iPads to people who had never bought an iPad before that number is 50%. And the range goes from 50 to over 70. And so when I look at number, our first time buyer rates in that area, it is saturated, that's not a saturated market. You never have first time buyer rates at 50% and 70%. What you do see is that people hold on to iPad longer than they do a phone. And because we've only been in this business four years, we don’t really know what the upgrade cycle will be for people. And so that's a difficult thing to call. What we do know is that people always respond for us doing great products and we feel really great about what we introduced last week. We also know that the deeper the Apps go in the enterprise, the more it opens up avenues in enterprise and that's a key part of the IBM partnership and what I think customers will get out of that, which is more important than our selling is changing the right people who work. And so I see catalyst going forward. There are obvious cannibalization; things that are occurring. I'm sure that some people looked at the Mac and iPad and decided on a Mac. I don’t have research to demonstrate that, but I am sure that will be just looking at the numbers and I am fine with that by the way. I am sure that some people will look at an iPad and an iPhone and decide just to get an iPhone and I'm fine with that as well. But over the long arc of time, my own judgment is that iPad has a great future, healthy individual 90-day clicks workout, I don’t know, But I'm very bullish on where we can take iPad over time and so we're continuing to invest in the product pipeline. We're continuing to invest in distribution. If you look at how we did in emerging markets like BRIC countries as an example, we were up 20% for the full year of '14. And so these numbers are impressive and obviously the BRIC countries are growing as a percentage of our total as is developing markets. And so, it looks a bit different geography to geography, and so that’s a long answer to your question, but I thought it was important for you to at least share my perspective and you can judge it as you will.

Barclays: Hey, thanks a lot. Tim, I was wondering what we were to make out of your new segments with the Apple Watch being in the other category. We were just a little surprised to hear that because it seems like such a substantial new category and you could sell may be even tens of millions of unit. So by putting it lumped in the other with iPods and a lot of other things, does that say something about your expectations for that product or do you think that you'll just break it out after a little while?

Cook: Probably it says nothing about our expectation for the product. We didn't form those categories based on expectations. We looked at current revenue, today revenue, and decided that we would love everything that wasn’t a Mac, an iPad, or an iPhone or a service in one kind of category. In the future, we might decide something different, but for now, in Q1 we're not shipping any iPhone or excuse me, Apple Watches and so it seems appropriate to start it that way. And also to be also straight is I am not very anxious in reporting a lot of numbers on Apple Watch because of the -- and giving a lot of detail on it because our competitors are looking for it and so aggregating it is helpful from that point of view as well.

Barclays: Okay. Got it. And then with regard to my next question is you put out a lot of products and we obviously everybody gives you a lot of credit for the great new product lineup that we have, but everybody talks about what's next. You said in an interview recently on TV that you were working on products that people didn't even speculate on yet and that's pretty hard with Apple considering how many people watch your company and write about it. So I was just wondering if you could elaborate on that may be in terms of your excitement around new products and what did you mean by that comment and how do you feel about the future in light of that comment you made?

Cook: I am incredibly optimistic about the future. We've already announced two new categories in the last 60 days or so or less than 60 days with Apple Pay and Apple Watch. So shipping the watch early next year and obviously we're working on other things as well and to the degree that I can keep that in the cone of silence, I am going to do it and so I am not sure what to say. I am not going to give any answer or anything. We look at a lot of different things and we're fortunate to have a lot of creative people here that want to change the world and have a lot of great ideas.

Jaffray: Hey, good afternoon. A follow-up to Ben's question in terms of the last year you had higher expectations in terms of new product categories and the iPhone 6 launch but there are some investors who think about Apple and a products type of story. So Tim, I'd be interested in how you think about the story broadly in 2015 and kind of exciting things to be focused on as an investor and then

Maestri: Yes, and you know pretty much what our product cadence is and what it's been in the past and you know that the holiday season is a period where we have significant product events and we're not providing any guidance for the March quarter. And also keep in mind Gene if you're trying to extrapolate gross margins into the future, there are so many factors that affect gross margin over time and it's not only transition cost, but its product mix, its foreign exchange, its commodity markets.

Montreal: Hi, Tim, I was wondering if you could characterize China a little bit. The numbers I understand weren't as good as the rest of the company this quarter but presumably that was all the delay of the iPhone. So I'm really asking if you talk about the last few weeks and more importantly as you look at December quarter in particular related to some of the political backdrop including the carriers have been mandated not to spend the same level of subsidies. Do you see any of that impacting your opportunities for Apple broadly speaking but more specifically for iPhones as it relates to subsidy levels?

Cook: That's a good question. If you -- if you just -- if you look at Greater China Q4 of '14 compared to Q4 of '13, the obvious difference is that we launched the 5s in Q4 of '13 and in this year, we didn't have a new product launch. We were launching in this quarter in Q1 of '15. The second thing that's not as apparent probably, but is more related to that is that last year we increased our channel inventory by $1.3 million. This year, we actually decreased it slightly. And so you have a compounded effect of their launch and a huge change in channel inventory on a year-over-year basis. So the way that I assess the strength of the market is I look at unit sell-through and to share with you what it was in Greater China, iPhone unit sell through despite no launch in Q4 was up 32% year-over-year. The market was projected by IDC to only grow 13%. So we feel incredibly great about that. Macs were up 54% year-over-year and that's against the IDC's estimate of the market contraction in China of 7% and so those are two stalwarts that were really driving results and so the underlying results look totally different than the reported results because of the channel inventory kind of differences. The App Store in China is also doing great. The growth there is phenomenal. iPad concreted some during the quarter, but for the full year we did grow -- we were up 9% year-over-year for the full year and so I see lots of positives. As you know China is on the early stages of their huge 4

Cook: And this weekend -- this past weekend we launched it with China Mobile, China Unicom and China Telecom. This was the first time we've launched a new iPhone with all three carriers and we've done it at the early stages of the 4G rollout and so I am incredibly bullish over it. In terms of subsidies there are regulatory pressures on subsidies. We have -- we've seen that. However, only 20% of the iPhones that we've been selling in China have had a traditional subsidy applied to it and so the vast majority don't. And so will it make a difference with that 20%, I don't know yet. Intuitively you were thinking, it would, but it's at least a percentage of a 20% instead of a percentage of 100%. And so when I look at China, I see an enormous market where there are more people graduating into the middle class than any nation on earth in history and just an incredible market where people brought the latest technology and products that we were providing. And so we're investing like crazy in the market. We're more than doubling our stores. We've got 15 in Greater China today. We're going to be close to 40 in the next couple of years. We've expanded our online store to cover now 315 cities in China. The revenue results for Q4 were up more than double the previous year. The App Store is growing. Chinese developers have now created a 150,000 apps -- of the apps on the App Store and so I see lots of very, very positive factors there and I couldn’t be more excited.

Cook: For iPhone I really have it by model from the June quarter and as I had mentioned before, the highest percentage is the 4s buyer in China over 80% of the people were buying their first iPhone. And for a 5s in China, 50% were and so I think what that says. Those numbers are so high, the 80 that I think are great -- my gut tells me, a great percentage of 6 and 6 Plus buyers will eventually -- a great percentage of those will be new to i

Cook: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon, everyone and thank you for joining us. Today we’re reporting on a historic quarter and I'm incredibly proud of everyone who contributed to the amazing results you’re about to hear. Interest in Apple products is at an all time high, with over 0.5 billion customer visits to our physical and online stores during the quarter. Demand for iPhone has been staggering, shattering our high expectations with sales of over 74 million units, driven by the unprecedented popularity of iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus. This volume is hard to comprehend. On average we sold over 34,000 iPhones every hour, 24 hours a day, everyday of the quarter. The execution by all of our teams to achieve these results was spectacular. By the end of the quarter, our new iPhones were available in 130 countries around the world, making this our fastest and most successful roll out ever. Additionally, the App Store and the Mac each set new records for quarterly revenues. Mac units were up 14% to 5.5 million, while the rest of the PC market continued to decline. App Store revenues was up a remarkable 41%. Demand was strong around the world. Flurry estimated that Apple products accounted for over half of all mobile device activations globally from December 19th to December 25th. It was truly a momentous quarter for iOS. On November 22nd we shipped our 1 billionth iOS device. It was a Space Gray 64 gigabyte iPhone 6 Plus, which we’ve saved here at Apple. 1 billion devices is an almost unfathomable milestone, and we are all incredibly proud to be a part of it. Apple’s mission is to make the greatest products on earth and enrich the lives of others. Through the success of iOS we have provided hundreds and millions of people with powerful personal technology that is simple and fun to use. Our customers are using Apple products to transform education, discover new ideas for business and express their creativity in ways that no one could have imagined when we sold the first iPhone less than eight years ago. It’s amazing to watch and it reminds that people and great ideas are the reasons we make the things we make. Our strong overall performance in the December quarter resulted in total company revenue of $74.6 billion, and earnings of $18 billion. Both of these numbers are all-time records for us, with revenues up 30% and earnings up 38% over last year. And due to our very large capital return activities, earnings per share were up even more at 48% to $3.06, also an all-time quarterly record. Our results would have been even stronger, absent fierce foreign exchange volatility. We’ve also made great progress on a number of very exciting new initiatives to further strengthen our ecosystem. We’ve been blown away by the reaction to Swift, our new programing language. Inventing a new programing language is something very few companies can do, and we believe it will have a profound effect on our ecosystem. Swift became available in September as part of the Xcode tools and in the first month those tools were downloaded over 11 million times. A recent report from Redmonk showed that Swift has had unprecedented growth and is quickly climbing the list of the most popular programing languages. We’ve seen many of our developers choosing Swift as they build significant new projects, and we are seeing fantastic work with Swift going on in education. Very recently, Stanford University released their Developing iOS 8 Apps with Swift course, which was posted to iTunes University making this amazing resource available to everyone in the world. There has also been incredible interest in HealthKit with over 600 developers now integrating it into their apps. Consumers can now choose to securely share their health and wellness metrics with these apps and this has led to some great, new and innovative experiences in fitness and wellness, food and nutrition and healthcare. For example, with apps such as an American Well, users can securely share data such as blood pressure, weight or activity directly with physicians, and leading hospitals such as Duke Medicine, Stanford Children and Penn Medicine are integrating data from HealthKit into their electronic medical record so that physicians can reach out to patients proactively when they see a problem that needs attention. With HealthKit and the iOS health app, we believe we’re just at the beginning of amazing new health and wellness solutions for our customers. Our extensions of iOS in the home with HomeKit and in the car with CarPlay also continue to progress and this year we are looking forward to amazing HomeKit enabled products from several companies, and CarPlay enabled vehicles from over 30 automotive brands. Also as you know, we introduced two new categories in the fall and we’re making great progress on both of them. Apple Pay is off to a very strong start and the feedback that we are getting from both individuals and institutions is extremely positive. Today about 750 banks and credit unions have signed on to bring Apple Pay to their customers, and in just three months after launch, Apple Pay makes up more than $2 out of $3 spent on purchases using contactless payment across the three major U.S. card networks. In merchants who already accept Apple Pay, the rates are even higher. Panera Bread tells us Apple Pay represents nearly 80% of their mobile payment transactions, and since the launch of Apple Pay, Whole Foods Market had seen mobile payments increased by more than 400%. You can use Apple Pay up and down Mainstreet, to pick up a prescription at Walgreens at Duane Reade, get office or school supplies at Office Depot and Staples and shop for groceries at national and regional stores from coast-to-coast, including BI-LO, Harvey’s, Save Mart, Wegmans Food Markets, Whole Foods and Winn-Dixie among others. More merchants are excited to bring Apple Pay to their customers and adoption is strong. Just today USA Technologies announced they made Apple Pay available at about 200,000 places where everyday payments happen, including vending machines and businesses, airports and schools, commercial laundry machines and colleges, universities and laundromats and parking meters and payment kiosks in lots across the country. Point-of-sale suppliers tell us they are seeing unprecedented demand from merchants, and all of our partners and customers simply love this new service. With all of this momentum in the early days, we are more convinced than ever that 2015 will be the year of Apple Pay. Development for Apple Watch is right on schedule and we expect to begin shipping in April. Developers are hard at work on apps, notifications and information summaries that we call Glances, all designed specifically for the Watch's user interface. The creativity and software innovation going on around Apple Watch is incredibly exciting and we can’t wait for our customers to experience them when Apple Watch becomes available. We’re also making great progress in our partnership with IBM and our collaboration is winning over new customers. In December, we delivered the first 10 MobileFirst for iOS apps for banking, retail, insurance, financial services, telecommunications, governments and airlines, making iPhone and iPad even more productive for enterprises by providing Cloud services with IBM's Big Data and analytics capabilities. Another 12 apps will be released this quarter, including three new industries, healthcare, energy and utilities, and industrial products. This will bring us to a total of 22 apps and we’re on track to have over 100 by the end of 2015. In just over a month, more than a dozen enterprise customers have signed on as foundation clients to transform their companies with iPhone, iPad and IBM MobileFirst solutions including Miami Dade County, the seventh largest county in the United States by population, and American Eagle Outfitters, which operates more than 1,000 retail stores and ships to over 80 countries worldwide. And the list of new customers is expanding rapidly. IBM is engaged with more than 130 additional companies looking to empower their employees with MobileFirst for iOS solutions and the list keeps growing. We couldn’t be more pleased with this partnership. In addition to all these initiatives, we have a robust product and services pipeline that we are very excited about, and we look forward to sharing more about them with you throughout the year. In addition to the contributions we make to humanity through our products, we made great progress on imported projects during the quarter including ConnectED and (PRODUCT)RED. With ConnectED we’re focused on making a difference for students in communities who need it the most. We recently chose 114 schools across 29 states to receive an Apple ConnectED grant. Despite their economic challenges, all of these schools share a vision of what their students' lives would be like with Apple technology and we’re proud to help them bring that to life. And in December, we undertook our largest ever initiative to help (PRODUCT)RED achieve the goal of an AIDS free generation. To commemorate World AIDS Day, we worked with some of our developer partners to create and donate the proceeds from 25 special apps and we also contributed a portion of sales at our retail and online stores on two of the year’s busiest shopping days. As a result, Apple’s donation set a new record. Delivering the results we’re reporting today reflects months and years of focus and determination from teams across Apple as well as our amazing developers and business partners. I’d like to thank all of them for their commitment and performance and I’d also like to thank our incredible customers for their ongoing loyalty and enthusiasm. With that, I’d like to turn the call over to

Maestri: Thank you, Tim and good afternoon everyone. In the December quarter we generated all time record revenue of $74.6 billion, an increase of $17 billion, or 30% year-over-year. We achieved this exceptional performance despite significant foreign exchange headwinds from many currencies. Our growth was broad based across the world, with revenue from developed countries up 20% and revenue from emerging countries up 58%. The performance of our Greater China segment was particularly impressive, with revenue up 70%. Sales were well ahead of our expectations in a number of areas. The unprecedented demand for iPhone 6 and 6 Plus combined with our tremendously successful production ramp allowed us to build and ship several million more iPhones than we had expected when we provided guidance back in October. And also Mac revenue and services revenue reached all-time highs. Gross margin was 39.9% above our guidance range and operating margin was $24.2 billion, representing 32.5% of revenue, and our highest operating margin percentage in 10 quarters. Net income was $18 billion, surpassing our previous all-time record by almost $5 billion. This translated to diluted earnings per share of $3.06, a 48% year-over-year increase. Cash flow from operations was exceptional at $33.7 billion, also a new all-time record. For details by product I will start with iPhone. We sold 74.5 million iPhones, an increase of 23.4 million over last year, representing 46% growth. iPhone sales grew strongly in both developed and emerging markets. Among many great results around the world, unit sales were up 44% in the U.S. and up 97% in the BRIC countries. Sales doubled year-over-year in China, our second largest iPhone market, as well as in Brazil and in Singapore. Thanks to the popularity of iPhone 6 Plus, and the increased value customers saw in our higher storage capacity offerings, iPhone ASPs were $687, an increase of $50 over the year ago quarter. This led to iPhone revenue growth of 57% year-over-year, with quarterly sales exceeding $50 billion for the first time ever. We had a 200,000 unit decline in iPhone channel inventory during December quarter this year, compared to an increase of about 1 million iPhones during the year ago period, and we were not able to reach supply demand balance until this month. This left us below our target range of five to seven weeks of channel inventory on a look forward basis. We’re now working with about 375 carriers, representing 72% of the world’s mobile phone subscriber base, and we have over 210,000 points of sale for iPhone across the globe. Our customers love their iPhones. A December ChangeWave survey measured a 97% customer satisfaction rating for iPhone. A study published by Chitika Insights last month indicated that iPhone accounts for 53% of North America smartphone web traffic, almost twice the level of the next closest brand. And in the corporate market ChangeWave found that among IT buyers planning to purchase smartphones in the March quarter this year, 77% intend to purchase iPhones. Next I’d like to talk about the Mac. We sold 5.5 million Macs, an increase of almost 700,000 units over last year, a 14% growth rate. Thanks for the popularity of our stunning new iMac with Retina 5K display, Mac ASPs increased by $58 sequentially, driving all time record revenue for Mac of 6.9 billion. We achieved double-digit year-over-year unit growth in both desktops and portables. These results are truly remarkable, given the contraction in the global PC market which IDC estimates declined by 3% in the quarter. We have now gained market share for 34 of the last 35 quarters. We ended the quarter with Mac channel inventory slightly below our four to five week target range. Turning to iPad, we sold 21.4 million units compared to 26 million in the December quarter last year. Given the introduction of new iPads in October, we increased iPad channel inventory by 1.1 million units during the quarter, compared to an increase of about 2.1 million in the December quarter last year. This left us within our five to seven week target range of channel inventory on a look forward basis. Customer experience and usage data for iPad continue to be excellent. In our November survey, ChangeWave measured a 98% customer satisfaction rate for iPad Air, and also found that among people to finding a purchase a tabled within 90 days, 60% plan to purchase an iPad. And among businesses planning to purchase tablets, the intent was even stronger at 78%. Chitika Insights' most recent report indicated that iPad users in North America generate over 70% of tablet based web traffic, more than six times the web traffic of the next closest competitor and Custora’s latest e-commerce report indicates that iPad accounts for 82% of all U.S. e-commerce transactions from tablets. All these results are consistent with usage data from the holiday shopping season. IBM’s digital analytics benchmark service found that iOS devices accounted for more than twice the online traffic and almost four times the e-commerce sales on Android devices during November and December. The Apple ecosystem continues to thrive. Combining all of our services, revenue grew to 4.8 billion in the December quarter, a new all-time high and an increase of 9% year-over-year. This record performance was driven primarily by the tremendous momentum of the App Store, with revenue growing 41% in the December quarter. Our iOS developers have earned over $25 billion from the App Store to date, and we’re thrilled with their success. Total sales of media and software from iTunes were $2.6 billion, compared to $2.4 billion in the year ago quarter. Our direct China performance was also outstanding. We welcomed more visitors than ever before and generated record revenue in both our physical and online stores. We opened 10 new retail stores during the quarter, bringing us to a total of 447, 182 of which are outside the United States. We’ve opened two new stores this month in Greater China and we’re on track towards 40 stores in Greater China by mid-2016. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $178 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $22.7 billion. We completed our first international debt offering, issuing 2.8 billion euro denominated notes at very attractive interest rates and greatly diversifying our debt investor base. We spent 5 billion to repurchase 45 million Apple shares through open market transactions, paid 2.8 billion in dividends and equivalents, and utilized over 500 million to net share settle vesting employee RSUs. We also retired an additional 8 million shares in connection with our accelerated share repurchase programs. We have now taken action on almost $103 billion of our $130 billion capital return program, including $73 billion in share repurchases, with four quarters remaining to its completion. In the last 12 months alone, we have returned over $57 billion to our investors. We review our capital return program on an ongoing basis. We continue to solicit feedback from a broad base of investors and we're on track to announce an update to the program in April when we report our second quarter results. Now as we move ahead into the March quarter, I’d like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $52 billion and $55 billion, compared to $45.6 billion in the year ago quarter, and this represents a very significant revenue increase, despite growing foreign exchange headwinds from the continued strengthening of the U.S. dollar against most currencies. We expect gross margin to be between 38.5% and 39.5%, we expect OpEx to be between $5.4 billion and $5.5 billion and we expect OI&E to be about $350 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.3%. Also today our Board has declared dividend of $0.47 per common share payable on February 12, 2015 to shareholders of record as of

Cross: Thank you very much and nice iPhone numbers. Can you talk about Luca about currency? How you are thinking about it? What it did this quarter? What it does to gross margin? And what’s it’s going to do during the year? Because that’s clearly a big topic of conversation?

Cook: Steve, its Tim. We don’t report out the precise mix. But what I can tell you is that iPhone 6 was the most popular iPhone last quarter, but I just believe to sell 74.5 million they were really all popular. And all did well. There is clearly a geographic difference where some geos would skew much higher on their preference to iPhone 6 Plus than other geos. And so it’s something that is not consistent around the world. But both did incredibly well, and we’re really proud of them, along with the i

Milunovich: Okay. And then could you update us in terms of the sell through relative to the reported numbers for the Phone, the Pad and your biggest plans to increase by roughly a week of channel inventory?

Cook: From an iPhone point of view, as I think Luca covered, our channel inventory decreased from the beginning of the quarter by 200,000 units, and that left us outside of our target range on the low -- outside the low end of the range to be specific. Just recently we became in supply demand balance on the 6 and 6 Plus in January. We were not able to reach a balanced state during our fiscal Q1. On iPad, we increased channel inventory by 1.1 million units from beginning of the quarter to end of the quarter. That compares to the previous year where we're increased to 2.1 million. Obviously, that inventory was required because of all the new products that we announced on iPad with the iPad Air 2 and the iPad Mini 3 in the October timeframe during the quarter. At the end of the quarter, we were within the target range of channel inventory on iPad. In terms of growing channel inventory, in particular on iPhone where we’re outside of it, we wouldn’t expect to see a large step function increase. We would expect it to occur more gradually over time than sort of all at once type of thing. But we don’t guide to channel inventory specifically as you know.

Huberty: So not to dilute the fantastic performance in December, but can you talk a little bit about how you think about the sustainability of this very strong iPhone demand into 2015, particularly given that most carriers had access to that product during the quarter? And then I have a follow up on margin?

Cook: Sure Katy. It’s Tim. You can see from the March guidance that we’ve given, that we are incredibly bullish about iPhone going forward. We believe that it’s the best smartphone in the world. Our customers are telling us that. The market is telling us that. We’re doing well in virtually every corner of the world. And so we’re very bullish that it does have legs. I would point out that only a small fraction of the installed base has upgraded. And so there is a lot more people within the installed base. But I would also point out that we had the highest number of customers new to iPhone last quarter than in any prior launch. And also that the current iPhone line up experienced the highest Android switcher rate in any of the last three launches in the three previous years. And we didn’t look back to the other years. So I don’t know about those. And so we see that we’re appealing to new customers, both new to smartphone and new to iPhone and people switching. We’re very bullish on the product and getting great feedback about the quality of the products we’re shipping. And so we’re very, very bullish. The emerging markets which has been a source to great questions over time, the growth was absolutely stunning, in Brazil and Mainland China more than doubling year-over-year which is 3x to 4x what those markets were doing according to

Huberty: And Luca as you know, you typically enjoy component cost downs and yield improvements as you move through a product cycle. Is there anything other than currency that keeps you from potentially locking the gross margins higher over the course of the year?

Reitzes: And Tim obviously a lot of good questions about the great iPhone number but I wanted to ask about the Apple Watch. Shifting in April, month or two later than I think you said originally obviously, probably not that big a deal, but what’s going on with that product in a little more detail in terms of the timing and your excitement for it and maybe a little more color on other apps that could be available at launch?

Cook: My expectations are very high on it. I'm using it every day and love it and I can’t live without it. So I see that we’re making great progress on the development of it. The number of developers that are writing apps more for it are impressive and we’re seeing some incredible innovation coming out there. And just to clarify, what we had been saying was early 2015, and we sort of look at the year and think of early as the first four months, mid is the next four months and late is the final four months. And so to us it's sort of within the range and it’s basically when we thought. We’re going to -- but most importantly we’re going to be thrilled to start shipping it, because we got a lot of customers that are wanting to get one.

Reitzes: And then just a follow-up in terms of China. How do you feel the momentum there is in terms of sustainability versus some of the local competition, and as you navigate that market specifically going forward?

Cook: The local competition was obviously there this quarter and has been there for many quarters before. And so the local competition is not new. I think we did really well there. I'm very proud of how we’re doing. I was there right after the launch in October. And the excitement around the iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus were absolutely phenomenal. And you can see that in the results with Mainland China being up 100% year-on-year, despite not having a full quarter of sales since we launched in the second half of October. You can tell by that we’re a big believer in China. We’re looking at our investment. We’re growing the number of stores. We’ll hit 20 soon and we’re doubling that by mid-2016 as Angela has said earlier and Luca said in his prepared comments as well. We’re also growing the channel there. Our online store has expanded to over 350 cities now, and in fact our online revenues in China last quarter were more than the sum of the previous five years. And so it’s an incredible market. I think people love

Sacconaghi: I was wondering if you could comment on your revenue guidance. Luca you mentioned the range as down 26% to 30% sequentially. I think if you look back over the last three or four Q1 to Q2s, revenues declined more in the 15% to 20% range. As you noted, your iPhone channel inventory is below your target range as well. So if anything, that might be going up. So I'm wondering if you could just discuss a little bit what factors are contributing to this steeper than normal decline this quarter, particularly given your ongoing enthusiasm for the phone.

Maestri: First of all, it’s a 20% year-over-year growth that we’re guiding at the top end of the range. So we obviously feel good about a 20% growth. As we look at it on a sequential basis, there's a couple of things that I think is important to point out. I mentioned the foreign exchange headwinds. They are there. We need to deal with them, but they obviously are a negative to revenue. Those are headwinds that we had this year and were not there a year ago. So that’s one factor. We’ve also said the manufacturing ramp that we’ve had this year in the December quarter has been the fastest that we’ve ever had. And so that’s also a factor that impacts the sequential compare. And then there's a couple of specific events that happened last year in the March quarter which are not going to repeat this year. One of them is the fact that last year in January we launched China Mobile and we had the subsequent channel sale for China Mobile. That of course is not going to repeat this year. And we also had a very, very strong quarter in Japan in the March quarter a year ago, which was driven by very significant carrier promotional activities, and a pull forward of sales into the March quarter in anticipation of a consumption tax increase that took place on April 1, and again that is not going to repeat. So when you take those factors into account, I think that explains the sequential decline that we see this year. Again I want to point out to the 20% year-over-year growth.

Scribner: Luca, I was hoping you can give us some detail on your expectations for operating expenses going forward. I know you’ve been investing pretty significantly in new products, but wanted to see how we should think about those trending over the next couple of quarters?

Maestri: Sherry, as you know, we provide guidance just for the upcoming quarter. And from what you’ve seen from our guidance for the March quarter, we’re guiding to a growth in OpEx on a year-over-year basis that is similar to what we’ve experienced during the course of the December quarter. We obviously feel good about the business during the December quarter. Our revenue exceeded in terms of growth, our growth in operating expenses. There's going to be quarters where the opposite is going to happen. Our expense to revenue ratio during the December quarter was that 7.4%. It was the lowest that we’ve had in two years. It’s among the lowest ratios that we’ve ever had. But obviously we are investing in the business and we will never under invest in the business. The majority of the increase will continue to come from R&D, given the fact that we’ve expanded our product portfolio and we’re making investments all the time ahead of the revenue that would be generated in the future. We also expect to continue to invest in marketing and advertising. We’re expanding distribution all over the world. We’ve taken our brand to more places and we continue to open new retail stores around the world. And so the idea for us is to continue to invest in the business, making the right trade-offs and the results from the

Shope: I wanted to follow up on your previous comments on the iPhone and the customer composition for the quarter. Considering the iPhone 6 Plus brought you into entirely new segment of smartphone market, can you give us a bit more color on that customer composition for this device? Specifically you mentioned the differences in geographic adoption, but how about on the Android switcher comments you made earlier, and first time adopters relative to the traditional iPhone 6 and your other iPhone models in the past. And I guess related to that, what do you think this tells you about your ASP and unit opportunity for growth in 2015?

Cook: Each has a different implementation. And so in some ways, like there is a different set of carriers in every country, there is a different set of banks. In a lot of the countries, some of the processes with the merchants are different. And so it’s an area where there is quite a bit of difference country to country to country and so there's clearly heavy lifting involved to scale. However it’s not something that scares us or that’s preventing us from viewing it as a big opportunity.

Cook: Good afternoon everyone, and thanks for joining us. We have a lot of great news to talk about, so I’ll jump right in. Today, we’re reporting our strongest March quarter ever, with 27% revenue growth and 40% earnings per share growth year over year. We’re seeing fantastic results for iPhone, with revenue growth of 55% year on year, and we’re seeing a higher rate of switchers than we’ve experienced in previous iPhone cycles. The success of iPhone has been extremely strong in emerging markets, where unit sales were up 63% year on year. The App Store had its best quarter ever, with a record number of customers making purchases, driving a new record for revenue and 29% year on year growth. We also reached an all-time quarterly record of $5 billion in total services revenue. We also continue to defy the trend of declining global PC sales, with double digit Mac unit growth in a market that IVC estimates contracted by 7%. We’re now halfway through fiscal 2015 and our year to date results have been simply staggering. We sold over 135 million iPhones, 34 million iPads, and 10 million Macs in the first six months of the year. Our revenue has grown by 28% to over $132 billion, net income has increased 36% to over $31 billion, and EPS has grown by 44%. We’re making many strategic investments in Apple’s future, in research and development, in our supply chain, and in our infrastructure, and we’ve made 27 acquisitions in the last six quarters. We’re in the very fortunate position of generating more cash than we need to run our business, and keep making these important investments. So today, we’re announcing another significant update to our capital return program, expanding its size to $200 billion through March of 2017 to reflect our strong confidence in what lies ahead for Apple. Luca will go into this in more detail in a moment. We’re also making great progress in many other areas. The Apple ecosystem continues to expand in exciting ways. We’re seeing great momentum with Apple Pay. Discover announced today that its cardmembers in the United States will be able to make contactless payments in participating stores through Apple Pay beginning this fall. And last month, we said that the number of locations accepting Apple Pay has tripled, and we continue to see great progress with merchants. Best Buy, which has been a longtime, strong partner of ours, has just announced that it’s now offering Apple Pay in-app and later this year will offer Apple Pay in all of their U.S. stores. And merchants aren’t the only ones jumping onboard. Earlier this month, a leading healthcare payment network announced acceptance of Apple Pay for its clients, so over 50 major hospitals across the country, including Stanford Healthcare and Aspen Valley, will accept Apple Pay this year for copays and bill payments at registration and check in. We’re also incredibly inspired by the momentum we’re seeing in health-related solutions. Since we released HealthKit with iOS 8 last September, over 1,000 apps have been developed to transform how people track, manage, and interact with their health and they’re now available on the App Store. Just this past weekend, Cedars-Sinai in Los Angeles turned on the largest HealthKit integration to date, giving more than 87,000 patients the ability to share their health and fitness data seamlessly with their MyCS link app, which syncs with their electronic medical record. And last month we announced ResearchKit, an open source software framework that helps doctors and scientists gather data from medical research participants more efficiently and accurately using iPhone applications. The response so far has been simply amazing, far exceeding our expectations. The first research apps developed using ResearchKit study asthma, breast cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and Parkinson’s disease, and have enrolled over 60,000 iPhone users in just the first few weeks of being available on the App Store. Over 1,000 researchers have contacted us expressing interest in performing studies through ResearchKit. We think these types of solutions have the potential to revolutionize medical studies in life-changing ways, and we’re proud that Apple is helping make this possible. Last quarter, we also announced a major economic investment in Europe, where we will spend $2 billion to build data centers in Ireland and Denmark. These will be our largest data centers in the world. Apple is now responsible for creating over 670,000 jobs across the European continent. Most of them have grown out of the success of the App Store, which has generated more than $7.5 billion for European developers since just 2008. We feel great about the economic contribution we’ve been able to make in Europe. The two data centers we’re building will run on 100% renewable energy from day one. This is just part of the work we’re doing to protect the environment and leave the world better than we found it. Today, 100% of Apple’s U.S. operations and 87% of global operations are powered by renewable energy. Just before Earth Day, we announced our plan to move to renewables in China. We’re undertaking a groundbreaking partnership with several companies to build a 40 megawatt solar farm in Szechuan Province that will generate far more than the amount of energy used by all of our offices and retail stores in China combined. We also announced an innovative new partnership with the Conservation Fund to permanently protect more than 36,000 acres of working forest in Maine and North Carolina to help offset the impact our packaging has on the world’s supply of sustainable virgin fiber. Apple is deeply committed to these initiatives and will continue to make them a priority. The June quarter is off to an exciting start with great new products and services. Three of them in particular are giving our customers a glimpse of the future and we are very happy with the reception that each of them is receiving. First, the all-new MacBook began shipping just over two weeks ago, and we are very happy with the response we’re getting from customers. The new MacBook is our lightest, most compact Mac notebook ever, and you really have to see it to believe it. It features a stunning 12 inch retina display, a new force touch trackpad, all day battery life, and a revolutionary new keyboard. We believe, and I think most everyone agrees, this is the future of the notebook. Second is the new streaming service from HBO, which is available on Apple TV and iOS. We teamed up with HBO last month to help launch HBO Now, a standalone service that lets customers stream the content they love from HBO on the devices they love from Apple, all without requiring a subscription to cable. HBO now has been incredibly popular with Apple TV users since its debut, and it has been one of the top downloaded apps on the U.S. App Store as well. And third, of course, is Apple Watch. It’s been really great to see the reaction of customers since their watches began arriving on Friday morning. All around the world, we’ve seen the excitement on social networks as people start using their Apple Watch. The response has been overwhelmingly positive. Adding to the surprise and delight of Apple Watch are the more than 3,500 apps that are already available. Our developer community has already seen the potential in this new category and put some of their best thinking into what wearable technology can do. We can’t wait to see more of the inspiring apps developers dream up for Apple Watch as we head into our Worldwide Developer Conference six weeks from now. I’d like to thank all of those developers and our hundreds of millions of customers for their loyalty and support. I’d also like to thank all of the Apple employees around the world for their creativity, tireless effort, and passion for delivering the very best products in the world. With that, I’ll turn the call over to

Maestri: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon everyone. As Tim mentioned, we just completed another outstanding quarter. Revenue for the March quarter was $58 billion, an increase of $12.4 billion or 27% year over year. Growth was driven primarily by the very strong performance of iPhone and the continued strength of the App Store and Mac sales. We achieved these terrific results despite growing foreign exchange headwinds. Our performance was particularly impressive in our Greater China and rest of Asia Pacific segments. In Greater China, we established an all-time quarterly record for revenue, which grew 71% year over year, to $16.8 billion. Gross margin was 40.8%, ahead of our expectations, mainly due to stronger than expected iPhone results. Operating margin was 31.5% of revenue and net income was $13.6 billion, a new Q2 record. Diluted earnings per share were $2.33, a 40% year over year increase, and cash flow from operations was $19.1 billion, also a new March quarter record. For details by product, I will start with iPhone. We sold 61.2 million iPhones in the quarter, representing 40% year over year growth and demand for iPhone 6 and 6 plus has remained incredibly strong. IPhone sales more than doubled in Korea, Singapore, Taiwan, and Vietnam, and they were up 80% or more in several other markets including Canada, Mexico, Germany, and Turkey. The strong mix of iPhone 6 and 6 plus combined with the popularity of higher capacity offerings led to iPhone ASPs of $659, an increase of $62 year over year, despite the very significant foreign exchange headwinds I already mentioned. We increased iPhone channel inventory by 1 million units during the quarter, which allowed us to get into the low end of our target range of 5 to 7 weeks of channel inventory. Next, I’d like to talk about the Mac. We sold 4.6 million Macs, representing 10% year over year growth, which is particularly impressive in the context of IDC’s latest estimate of a 7% global PC market contraction. The growth was led by portables and spurred by the updates to MacBook Air and MacBook Pro in March. We ended the quarter within our 4 to 5 week target range for Mac channel inventory. Turning to iPad, we sold 12.6 million, compared to 16.4 million in the year ago quarter. iPad sellthrough was 13.7 million, as we reduced channel inventory by about 1.1 million units, coming off the holiday quarter. This left us within our 5 to 7 week target range of iPad channel inventory. We set a new March quarter record for iPad sales in Japan, and an all-time record for iPad sales in China, but performance in other markets was more muted during the quarter. iPad turns five years old this month, and in every year since its introduction, it has been the number one tablet in sales, in quantity and quality of tablet apps, in usage, and most importantly, in customer satisfaction. And based on the latest data from NPD, iPad maintains a very strong leadership share in all the price bands where we compete. iPad has also consistently been the number one tablet in enterprise. A recent Changewave survey found that among corporate buyers planning to buy tablets in the next six months, 77% plan to purchase iPads. In fact, we are seeing very high interest from companies who want to use iPads to transform how work gets done. The vast majority of the app opportunities that have been identified as part of the Apple and IBM partnership are specifically for iPad. In addition to IBM, we working closely with more than two dozen other leading business software and solution providers including Box, Docusign, Microstrategy, Revel, and ServiceMax to bring a broad range of innovative mobile solutions to more customers on iPad. Turning to services, revenue grew to a new all-time record of $5 billion, an increase of 9% year over year. The growth was led by the App Store, which remains incredibly popular with our customers around the world, with revenue up 29% in the March quarter. According to App Annie, the App Store generated 70% more global revenue in the March quarter than Google Play, up from a 60% lead in the September quarter. Traffic to our retail and online stores was excellent, with a 22% year over year increase in customer visits. We’re progressing well with our plans for retail store expansion in Greater China, where we added six new stores in the past quarter alone, bringing us to 21 stores in 11 cities. We’re on track to have 40 stores open in Greater China by the middle of next year. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $193.5 billion in cash, plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $15.6 billion. Over $171 billion of this cash was offshore. In the March quarter, we issued 6.5 billion U.S. dollar denominated notes and 1.3 billion Swiss franc denominated notes as we continue to diversify our global debt investor base. We’ve now raised a total of $40 billion of term debt at very attractive rates. We spent $7 billion to repurchase 56.4 million Apple shares through open market transactions, paid $2.7 billion in dividends and equivalents, and utilized about $100 million to settle vesting employee RSUs. We also retired an additional 13.3 million shares during the quarter, with the conclusion of the accelerated share repurchase program we launched last August. We have executed our capital return program aggressively, and we’ve now taken action on over $112 billion of our $130 billion program, including $80 billion in share repurchases at an average price of $85. As we’ve said consistently, creating value for shareholders by developing great products that enrich people’s lives will always be our top priority and the key factor driving our investments and our capital allocation decisions. With this framework in mind, Apple’s board and management team continue to review capital allocation regularly, and we solicit input on our program from a broad base of shareholders. This process allows us to be thoughtful about the size, the mix, and the pace of the program. We very much appreciate all the input that many shareholders have provided us. We continue to be in the fortunate position of being able to return significant capital to shareholders. We first announced our capital return program three years ago with an initial size of $45 billion, and we’ve increased it annually since then. Today, we’re announcing the third update to our program, expanding its size by the largest amount yet and extending its duration. The existing program was set to conclude at the end of this calendar year, and we’re now extending the program by five quarters to the end of March 2017. Once again, with this update we’re allocating the majority of the expansion of the program to share repurchases, given our strong confidence in the future of Apple and the value we see in our stock. The board has increased the share repurchase authorization by $50 billion, raising it from the current $90 billion to $140 billion. We will also continue to net share settle vesting employee restricted stock units. We also understand that the dividend is very important to many of our investors and we’re raising it for the third time in less than three years. The quarterly dividend will grow from $0.47 per share to $0.52 per share, an increase of 11%. This effective with our next dividend, which the board has declared today and is payable on May 14, 2015 to shareholders of record as of May 11, 2015. We believe this is a meaningful increase for those shareholders who value income, and we continue to plan for annual dividend increases going forward. With over $11 billion in annual dividend payments, we’re proud to be one of the largest dividend payers in the world. In total, the size of our revised capital return program will increase by over 50%, from approximately $130 billion to $200 billion. As we’ve done in the past, we expect to fund our capital return program with U.S. cash, future U.S. cash flow generation, and borrowing from both domestic and international debt markets. And we plan to provide the next update on our program at about this time next year. Now, as we move ahead into the June quarter, I’d like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $46 billion and $48 billion, compared to $37.4 billion in the year ago quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 38.5% and 39.5%. We expect opex to be between $5.65 billion and $5.75 billion. We expect YNE to be about $350 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.3%. With that, let’s open the call to questions.

Paxton: Thank you, and we ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow up. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Schultz: When we look at the effect of currency on your gross profit, which I think was far less than anyone anticipated, have you be able to reduce some of the pressure by adjusting the terms of your suppliers? Or is that something we should expect to see more of as you progress through the year? A –

Maestri: I’m gonna give you some numbers on the currency, because I know it’s a topic that is top of mind. You’re asking about gross margin, and you know, we look at this on a sequential basis. And I mentioned during the call in January that we were expecting FX to have a negative impact on a sequential basis of about 100 basis points after the effect of the hedges. And that is exactly what happened in our actual results. So that was pretty much in line with what we were anticipating. Of course, we expect this headwind to continue. And on a sequential basis, when we look into the June quarter, we expect to see another 40 basis points of negative impact from currency. We’re dealing with these headwinds. They’re part of business, and so we’re dealing with them in many ways. We are looking at, in some cases, at the potential to increase prices in certain markets. We’re looking of course at our cost structure, and we try to remain as competitive as possible. So we feel very good about the gross margins that we’ve generated in the March quarter, and we feel very good about the guidance that we provided, given the severity of the impact. Q –

Cook: Yeah, sure. Our current estimate is that about 20% of the active installed base has upgraded to a 6 or 6 plus. And so as I look at that number, that suggests there’s plenty of upgrade headroom in addition to we want to keep inviting over as many switchers as we can. So between both of those and the first time buyers as well, it seems really, really good right now.

Sacconaghi: I just wanted to revisit the watch. Tim, I think you’ve said, when you were talking about your new products, you said we’re “very happy with the reception” and in response to a previous answer, you said, “relative to demand, it’s hard to gauge with no product in the stores.” I would say relative to other product launches, where your commentary around demand was characterized by superlative after superlative, that assessment feels very modest. And part of the reason that I ask is A) are we reading you right in terms of that, but if we look at consensus, consensus is expecting that Apple will ship more watches in its first two quarters than it did iPad, despite, as you said, very limited distribution in terms of only selling through your store. So I’m wondering if you could talk a little bit about putting those demand comments in context given that they do seem different from how you’ve characterized product demand for other products, and how, if at all, we should think about modeling demand in the context, perhaps, of the i

Cook: I’m thrilled with it, Tony, so I don’t want you to read anything I’m saying any way other than that. So I’m not sure how to say that any clearer than that. And in any situation, whether it’s the watch or in the past on iPad or on iPhone, when demand is much greater than supply, it’s difficult to gauge exactly what it is. And so as you know, we don’t make long term forecasts on here. We make forecasts for the current quarter. And so I don’t want to make any comment about the consensus numbers. Honestly, I haven’t even studied those. We’ve got enough to think about here. I feel really great about it. The customer response, literally, from what I’ve seen, is close to 100% positive. And so it’s hard to imagine it being better.

Cross: And just sort of a follow up on the iPad side. What do you think it’s going to take to reaccelerate iPads? The sellthrough was better than the sell in this quarter, but are we seeing cannibalization from the iPhone 6 plus and how are you sort of thinking about the IBM partnership as it relates to iPad?

Cook: Number one, we have to stop having the situations where we sell through more than we sell in, where we don’t have to have an inventory correction. That was over a million units. Two, have we had cannibalization? The answer is yes. We’re clearly seeing cannibalization from iPhone and on the other side, from the Mac. And of course, as I’ve said before, we’ve never worried about that. It is what it is. That will play out, and at some point, it will stabilize. I’m not sure precisely when, but I’m pretty confident that it will. The IBM partnership, I think, is in its early stages in terms of bearing fruit here, but everything I see I like on it. I’m a big believer in the ability for iPad to play in a major way in enterprise. And so I’m looking forward to seeing that play out as we move forward. If you look at the underlying data, it makes you feel a lot better than the sales do. And so things like first time buyer rates, the latest numbers from the U.S. are somewhere around 40%. And if you look at China, they’re almost 70%. And so these numbers are not numbers that you would get if the market were saturated. And so I continue to believe, even though I’ve seen people write that, that I think that theory is not correct, and do not see that. We also see usage numbers that are off the charts, so far above competition it’s not even in the same planet. And we see customer satisfaction at or near 100%. And so these kind of numbers, along with intent to buy numbers, everything looks fantastic, the ecommerce numbers. And so my belief is that as the inventory plays out, as we make some continued investments in our product pipeline, which we’re doing, that we already have planned and have had planned for some time, between that, the inventory playing out, the enterprise starting to take over, I think still I believe the iPad is an extremely good business over the long term. When precisely it begins to grow again I wouldn’t want to predict, but

Milunovich: Luca, could you comment a bit about the factors that went into your decision on the capital return program, particularly the share repurchase part? For example, I would think you’re pretty well done in terms of taking U.S. cash down. So you are dependent upon cash flow in the U.S. as well as debt. And regarding debt, do you have a debt to EBITDA ratio in mind that you don’t want to go over? Do you want to keep your AA rating? Is that important? Just other factors like capital spending needs, just curious what your thinking was.

Cook: First of all, I think it’s about giving the customer something they want and giving to them in Apples classic ease of use and in the product environments and the user interface that they’re used to working in, in this case Apple TV. And so I think HBO in particular has some incredibly great content. And so we’re marrying their great content, our great product and ecosystem, and it’s clear from looking at the early returns - you know, we’ve only been at this for a couple of weeks or so - that there’s a lot of traction in there. And so where could it go? I don’t want to speculate, but you can speculate probably as good as I can about where that can go. I think we’re on the early stages of just major, major changes in media that are going to be really great for consumers, and

Director: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon everyone, and thanks for joining us. It's been a busy and exciting quarter and I'm delighted to talk to you about the highlights. Today, we're proud to report record June quarter results with revenues of $49.6 billion and earnings of $10.7 billion. Our year-over-year growth rate in the fiscal third quarter accelerated over the first half of fiscal 2015. Revenues were up 33%, our fastest growth rate in over three years, and earnings per share were up 45%. We achieved these incredibly strong results despite reducing channel inventories across our product lines by over 1 million units and despite the challenging FX environment. Revenue exceeded the high end of our guidance by $1.6 billion as we topped our internal expectations for sales of iPhone, iPad, Mac and Apple Watch. We had another stellar quarter for iPhone, establishing a new June quarter record. iPhone unit sales grew 35%, which is almost three times the rate of growth of the smartphone market overall and we gained share in all of our geographic segments. iPhone revenue grew even more strongly, up 59%. The strong iPhone results were broad-based in both developed and emerging markets and we experienced the highest switcher rate from Android that we've ever measured. Most importantly, iPhone customer metrics are tremendous. ChangeWave's most recent survey of US customers found that iPhone has the highest customer satisfaction rate of any smartphone brand by a wide margin, and that among iPhone owners planning to purchase a new phone, 86% plan to purchase another iPhone. That compares to 50% repurchase intent for the next highest brand measured. We also had a tremendous record quarter for Mac, continuing to defy the industry trend with unit growth of 9% in a market that IDC estimates contracted by 12%. Growth was fueled by great response to our new MacBook and we're working hard to catch up with customer demand. We generated over $5 billion in services revenue, setting a new all-time record. Within services, the App Store produced its best quarter ever with revenue growing 24%. Our results from Greater China were outstanding with revenue growth of 112% and iPhone unit growth of 87%. This is particularly impressive given IDC's estimate of only 5% growth for the Greater China smartphone market. We also achieved our highest ever PC market share in the segment with Mac sales growing 33% over last year. And our ecosystem in China continues to grow at a very fast pace, with App Store revenue more than doubling in the quarter. Luca will go into more detail on our product and financial results in a moment. A major highlight of the past quarter for all of us here at Apple was the launch of Apple Watch in April. As you know, we've been very excited to get this revolutionary product to customers. We started taking preorders in nine countries on April 10, and demand immediately exceeded supply by a wide margin. To prioritize those first orders and to deliver the best experience for our customers, we delayed the availability of Apple Watch in our own retail stores until mid June. We made huge progress with the production ramp across the quarter and near the end of the quarter expanded into six additional countries. And in just the past few days, we've been able to catch up with demand, enabling us to expand Apple Watch availability to a total of 19 countries currently with three more countries to be added at the end of this month. The feedback from Apple Watch customers is incredibly positive and we've been very happy with customer satisfaction and usage statistics. Market research from Wristly measured a 97% customer satisfaction rate for Apple Watch and we hear from people every day about the impact it's having on their health, their daily routines, and how they communicate. Our own market research shows that 94% of Apple Watch owners wear and use it regularly, if not every day. Messaging and activity features are among the most popular and social networking apps including Twitter, WeChat and LINE are seeing the most usage among third party apps. We believe that the possibilities for Apple Watch are enormous and that's been reinforced in just the first few weeks since it became available to customers. For example, doctors and researchers at leading hospitals in the US and Europe are already putting Apple Watch to work in improving patients' lives. Nebraska Medicine, the latest hospital to adopt Apple Watch, has rolled out new apps that facilitate communication between patients and doctors and provide quick access to important chart and dosage information. Ochsner Health System of Louisiana is using Apple Watch with hypertension patients to gather important information like daily activity and blood pressure level, and leading cancer centers like London King's College Hospital are incorporating Apple Watch into trials for ongoing care and monitoring of cancer patients. Great Apple Watch solutions go well beyond healthcare. Users are tracking their fitness, getting breaking news alerts, following their investments, connecting with friends, and living a healthier day. The user experience for Apple Pay and Siri is nothing short of incredible and customers are enjoying countless other features through the over 8,500 third-party apps available for Apple Watch. This is just the beginning of what this new platform can deliver. With Apple watchOS 2, developers now have the ability to build richer and more powerful native apps for Apple Watch, taking advantage of the heart rate sensor, the Digital Crown, accelerometer and more, ushering in a whole new class of apps designed specifically for the wrist. It's a rare and special privilege to launch a new platform with such promise and potential, and I know I speak for everyone at Apple when I say that we can't wait to see what our developers and customers do with it. We hosted a fantastic developers' conference in June with thousands of attendees from 70 countries coming together with Apple engineers to share in the excitement of our three operating systems, OS X, iOS, and watchOS. We've been working hard to make our products even more intelligent, more powerful and more meaningful in all aspects of our customers' lives, while adding new continuity features to make the experience across our devices more seamless than ever and preserving the security and privacy that our customers deserve. Public betas of OS X El Capitan and iOS 9 are available now and customer versions of all three updated OSs are on schedule and will be delivered in the fall. We're very excited about our news app coming to iPhone and iPad with iOS 9. We believe it will be the best news reading experience on any mobile device, combining a beautiful magazine layout with real-time customized digital media content. News will follow over a million topics and pull relevant stories based on the user's specific interests without compromising their privacy. We've already signed 25 leading publishers, representing more than 75 of the world's most influential news, sports, business and magazine titles, including CNN, the New York Times, the Financial Times, ESPN, Bloomberg Business, Condé Nast, Hearst, Reuters, Time, Inc. and The Daily Telegraph. The September quarter is off to an exciting start. We're thrilled by the response to Apple Music, which launched in over 100 countries on June 30. Apple Music is a single immersive app that combines the best ways to enjoy music all in one place. It's an incredible streaming music service, a pioneering worldwide live radio station broadcasting 24 hours a day, and a great place for music fans to connect with their favorite artist. Customers and reviewers love the human curation features of Apple Music and the way it's helping people discover new music. Millions and millions of customers are already experiencing the new service using the three-month trial period, and the numbers are growing substantially every day. Over 15,000 artists have signed up to post on Connect, where we are already seeing great original content, including a world premiere video by Drake. Millions of listeners around the world are tuning in to Beats 1, the first of its kind worldwide radio station featuring some of the most talented and passionate music lovers on the planet. This all adds up to a renewed sense of excitement around music, which we love and expect to continue as Apple Music gets traction with customers. Last week we launched Apple Pay in the UK, bringing customers our easy, secure and private way to pay. On day one, we had an incredible roster of over 250,000 locations and major credit and debit cards from many of the UK's most established banks supporting Apple Pay. Customers are using Apple Pay to ride the London Underground as well as the over ground systems of Transport for London and we hope this will be a model for other public transportation systems around the world. In the US, we've seen fantastic support from merchants of all sizes. We are excited to see this momentum continue with the new Square reader coming this fall. It will bring Apple Pay to even more neighborhood businesses where you pay every day, from your corner coffee shop to your local farmer's market, bolstering the 80,000 small- and medium-size businesses we're already adding every month. American Express will add Apple Pay support for its robust portfolio of corporate cards next month, offering businesses and their employees a new way to make easy and secure payments. And as we head into the school year, 700 universities and colleges across the US will accept Apple Pay such as Auburn University, the University of California Irvine, Colorado State University, the University of Kentucky and the University of Oklahoma, among many others. We're on track for Apple Pay acceptance at over 1.5 million US locations by the end of 2015. I'd like to thank our customers, developers, business partners and employees for another record breaking quarter. We're very hard at work on our exciting pipeline of new hardware, software and services, and we're continuing to expand our global reach into new markets. And we're passionately committed to leaving the world better than we found it. With that, I'll turn the call over to

Officer: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. As we have done for the first half of our fiscal 2015, we are reporting another record quarter today. Revenue for the June quarter was $49.6 billion, an increase of $12.2 billion or 33% year over year. Our growth was driven by the tremendous performance of iPhone, the introduction of Apple Watch and the continued strength of Mac and App Store sales. We achieved these great results in the context of a very challenging foreign exchange environment around the world and a reduction in channel inventory of over 1 million units across our product lines, which makes our growth performance even more remarkable. As Tim mentioned, our results were especially impressive in Greater China, where revenue more than doubled year over year to over $13 billion. Emerging markets overall grew 79% to almost $18 billion and represented 35% of our total company revenue. Company gross margin was 39.7%, better than our expectations, mainly due to strong iPhone sales. Operating margin was 28.4% of revenue and net income was $10.7 billion, a new June quarter record. Diluted earnings per share were $1.85, a 45% year-over-year increase and cash flow from operations was $15 billion, also a new third quarter record. For details by product I'll start with iPhone. We sold 47.5 million iPhones in the quarter, representing 35% year over year growth and demand for iPhone 6 and 6 Plus has continued to be terrific all around the world. iPhone sales more than doubled in Germany, Korea, Malaysia, and Vietnam. We're up over 85% in Greater China and in India, and increased more than 45% in several countries including Italy, Spain, the Netherlands and Turkey. The strong mix of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus led to an iPhone ASP of $660, an increase of $99 year over year, despite the significant negative foreign exchange impact I referred to earlier. We reduced iPhone channel inventory by about 600,000 units during the quarter, which left us at the low end of our target range of 5 to 7 weeks of channel inventory. Next I'd like to talk about the Mac. We sold 4.8 million Macs, representing 9% year-over-year growth. As we have done for several years in a row, we continued to gain significant market share based on IDC's latest estimate of a 12% global PC market contraction. Mac growth was driven by portables and we are delighted with the very strong customer reception of our new MacBook. We ended the quarter slightly below our 4 to 5 week target range for Mac channel inventory. Turning to iPad. We sold 10.9 million compared to 13.3 million in the year-ago quarter. iPad sell-through was 11.2 million as we reduced channel inventory by about 300,000 units. This left us within our 5 to 7 week target range of iPad channel inventory. iPad customer metrics continue to be extremely positive. ChangeWave recently measured a 97% customer satisfaction rate for iPad Air 2 and among consumers planning to purchase a tablet within 90 days, over half plan to purchase an iPad. For corporate buyers, the purchase intent was even stronger at over 70%. We do not participate in the low end of the tablet market, but we are extremely successful where we do compete. NPD recently indicated that iPad has 76% share of the US market for tablets priced above $200. We're very excited about the advances in the iPad experience coming in iOS 9 in the fall, including the slide over and split view features for retail multitasking, picture-in-picture for FaceTime and video, and enhanced QuickType for composing text even faster. We're also seeing great momentum in the enterprise market. For instance, riding on the success of iPad use by its pilots, United Airlines has not only renewed its iPad program with more than 10,000 iPad Air 2s, but has also made a strategic decision to provide iPhones to over 20,000 flight attendants. In the near future, United plans to introduce new apps to transform the customer experience and improve integration with flight operations. We're also very happy with the progress of our IBM partnership. IBM released 13 new MobileFirst for iOS apps in the June quarter, including new apps in retail banking and healthcare, as well as new horizontal apps for HR and sales. There are now 35 apps in IBM's MobileFirst for iOS catalog that connect users to big data and analytics right on their iPads or iPhones. And we expect a total of 100 apps to be available by the end of 2015. Active customer engagements have also grown to over 500 and recent notable customer wins include Air Canada, National Grid in the UK and Banorte in Mexico. In April, Apple, IBM and Japan Post announced a joint initiative to deliver iPads with IBM developed apps and analytics to connect Japanese senior citizens with services, healthcare, community and family. Japan Post hopes to reach 4 million to 5 million Japanese customers with these solutions by 2020. Since announcing this initiative less than three months ago, we've already seen strong interest from other countries looking for innovative ways to support an aging population. Importantly, we also continue to work closely with leading business software and solution providers to help businesses of all sizes transform work with iPad and iPhone. The number of these mobility partners has expanded rapidly to over 40. They're developing new and differentiated solutions on iOS across many industries, and attracting very significant customer interest. Turning to services. We generated over $5 billion in revenue, a new all-time record, and an increase of 12% over last year thanks primarily to strong growth from apps. The revenue from the App Store increased 24% and the number of transacting customers grew 19%, also setting an all-time record. Services growth was particularly strong in China, where the App Store revenue more than doubled year over year. China based developers have created 250,000 apps for our China App Store and the response from our customers has been tremendous. The revenue from other products grew sharply, up 49% over last year. The contribution from Apple Watch accounted for well over 100% of the growth of the category, and more than offset the decline of iPod and accessory sales. As we've said in the past, we do not plan to disclose Apple Watch metrics because we don't intend to provide insight that could help our competitors. Our retail and online stores had a very busy quarter, with customer visits up 49% year-over-year, driven especially by the very strong interest in Apple Watch. Thanks to our very popular Apple Store app, mobile traffic to our online stores during the quarter equaled desktop traffic for the first time ever. We opened three new stores, our second store in Brazil, our sixth store in Manhattan, and our twenty-second store in Greater China. That brought us to a global store count of 456, of which 190 are outside the United States, and we are on track to have 40 stores open in Greater China by the middle of next year. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $202.8 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $9.3 billion. $181 billion of this cash, or 89% of the total, was offshore. In the June quarter, we issued a total of $10 billion of term debt, consisting of $8 billion US dollar denominated notes and ¥250 billion denominated notes as we continue to diversify our global debt investor base. This left us with $50 billion of term debt outstanding at the end of the quarter. During the quarter, we turned over $13 billion to our investors. We paid $3.1 billion in dividends and equivalents and we spent $4 billion to repurchase 31.2 million Apple shares to open market transactions. We also launched a $6 billion accelerated share repurchase program in May and received an initial delivery of 38.3 million shares. The purchase period for the new ASR will end in or before November of 2015. We have continued to execute our capital return program at a fast pace and we now take an action on over $126 billion of our $200 billion program, including $90 billion in share repurchases. The weighted average price for all open market purchases and completed ASR programs to date is $86. Now as we move ahead into the September quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $49 billion and $51 billion compared to $42.1 billion in the year-ago quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 38.5% and 39.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $5.850 billion and $5.950 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $400 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.3%. Also today our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.52 per share of common stock payable on August 15, 2015 to shareholders of record as of August 10, 2015. With that, let's open the call to questions.

Treasury: We ask that you limit yourself to one, one-part question and one follow-up. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

C: Yes, thanks. Good afternoon. While the year on year iPhone growth was very attractive, the sequential unit decline in the June quarter was worse than the past two years. Why do you think that was, and in particular, why drain channel inventory when iPhone 6 is selling so well?

Director: Katy, it's Tim. As Luca mentioned, the channel inventory did go down by 600,000. We sold more units than we thought we would and so that was a part of that. The other part of it is that we always run with just the amount of inventory that we think we need. And so to the degree that sales are distributed in the countries with disproportionally with shorter supply chains, or the standard deviation demand is less, we would always choose to have less. And so in this particular quarter, we were able to end basically right at the bottom end of our range and we view that as a good thing, not a bad thing. Obviously the revenues could have been much higher if we would have expanded the channel, but if you don't need to do that, that's not how we think about the business. We run the business for the long term, not the 90-day clock. In terms of what's going on with iPhone, the 35% growth is almost three times the market. And if you look at it at a little narrower regional level, Western Europe grew 30% versus a market of 7%, so four times market. Japan grew over five times market. We doubled in Korea versus a market that was shrinking. And India we grew at 93% and this is on top of the Greater China numbers that we've already covered that grew 87% during the quarter against a market of 5%. And so we did exceptionally well I think in any way that you look at it. In terms of the percentage of customers that have upgraded to a 6 and 6 Plus versus that have not upgraded, it's 73%, or meaning that 27% of the installed base of customers prior to the launch of 6 and 6 Plus have now upgraded. And so we view that as a very bullish sign on the future, that there's a lot of headroom left for upgraders. We also are incredibly happy to see the highest Android switcher rate that we've observed. And so from our point of view, the i

C: So Tim, just to extend that conversation to the longer term, as I'm sure you're aware, you're lapping some pretty significant comps as it relates to the upgrades that you're talking about as well as significant growth in China. What is the framework that you use to convince yourselves that iPhone units can continue to grow over the longer term?

Officer: Okay Gene, let me start with gross margin. As Tim said before, obviously we guide to the current quarter. You know, as we look at it at a macro level. I think there are, you know every cycle is different for a variety of reasons. There are also things that are not necessarily within our control. So for example, currency markets can be very different one year to the next. We know that the next year is going to represent an additional challenge given where the dollar has moved. Commodity markets may be very different from one year to the other. There are things that remain relatively similar as we launch new products. For example, we innovate the products. We want to make them better all the time, and that typically requires additional cost and so the cost structures of our products, new products, tend to be higher than the products that they replace. Having said that, as you know we've got a very, very good track record to reduce those cost factors over the lifecycle of the products. I think this should give you a bit of color. Of course maybe the one thing that I want to point out again as we get into the following year, is that of course currency will be an issue.

Director: Yeah Gene, this is Tim. Let me talk about the Watch some. As you know, we made a decision back in September, quite several months ago not to disclose the shipments on the Watch and that was not a matter of not being transparent, it was a matter of not giving our competition insight that's a product that we've worked really hard on. However, let me give you some color so to avoid reaching sort of a wrong conclusion. If you look at the other products category and look at the revenue in this category, it would not be an accurate thing to just look at the sequential change or the year over year change and assume that were the total Watch revenue because the aggregate balance of that category, both sequentially and year over year, is shrinking. Obviously iPod is a part of that, but there are other things in there, accessories and so forth, that are shrinking. Secondly to provide a bit more color, sales of the Watch did exceed our expectations and they did so despite supply still trailing demand at the end of the quarter. And to give you a little additional insight, through the end of the quarter, in fact the Apple Watch sell-through was higher than the comparable launch periods of the original iPhone or the original iPad. And we were able to do that with having only 680 points of sale. And as you probably know, as I had reviewed earlier, the online sales were so great at the beginning, we were not able to feed inventory to our stores until mid-June. And so those points of sale pretty much, the overwhelming majority of the low numbers of sales were not there until the last two weeks of the quarter. And so as I look at all of these things, we feel really great about how we did. Now our objective for the quarter wasn't primarily sales. Beyond the very good news on sales, we're more excited about how the product is positioned for the long term because we're starting a new category. And as I back up and look at this, we have 8,500 apps. We've already announced the next operating system, watchOS 2. It will bring native apps which are going to be killer to the Watch. Even though the store layout was delayed, we've learned a lot about the buying experience. Based on that experience, we're now planning to expand our channel before the holiday because we're convinced that the Watch is going to be one of the top gifts of the holiday season. Now most importantly of all of this is that customer sat is off the charts because we've constantly seen if you can get the customer sat off the charts you can wind up doing fairly well over time. We've also learned a lot about managing quite an assortment and so forth. And so I sort of back up and look at this and I feel fantastic about what the team has done and delivered and I know I never go anywhere without the Watch and it's not because I'm the CEO of Apple. I'm that attached to it and I get lots of notes from a lot of people that feel the same way. And so that's how I look at the

C: Yes, thank you. Luca, I think in your prepared remarks you talked a little bit about your market share of iPad in the US above $200 being 78%. And I'm wondering if you think about the iPhone and your market share in the premium category, how do you think about it? So I've seen market data that says 60% market share for phones above $300 or you have actually 90% market share for phones above $600. And I'm wondering if, Tim or Luca, you could maybe talk about how you think about your market share, where you play given that your ASP is comfortably above $600? What do you think your market share is above $500 or $600 in smartphones? And how do we think about that, that market share going forward?

Director: Toni, it's Tim. We look at it a bit differently than you do. We look at it as our job is to grow our products regardless of the price, which means that we need to convince in some cases people to move from one price band to the other. And that we think if we do a great job with the product that people will be willing to spend more because they get so much more out of it. And I think you can look at the results on the iPhone and see that in action. I mean, we grew 87% in China. We grew 90%-plus in India. Emerging markets are growing 65%. These numbers are unbelievable and they're done in an environment where it's not the best of conditions. So that's how we look at. We don't do the MBA analysis of there's only X people buying in a price band and therefore we can only get X minus Y percent. That's not the way we've ever looked at it. If we did, we wouldn't be shipping any products.

C: Tim, I'm asking in part because you talked about the highest ever Android switcher. So I'm wondering if indeed your goal of expanding the category is happening or whether you are taking share and how do you measure the relative contribution of each of those in your success. So is the strength and the dramatically above market growth because you're taking share in that high-end category and how far along are you there? Or can you point to proof points that you've actually expanded the size of the market for products of your price point?

Director: Jim, it's Tim. We think the phone has a lot of legs to it. I mean, many, many, many years. There's tons of innovation left at the phone. I think we're in the early innings of it, not in the late innings, and I think the market rate of growth over the long haul will also be impressive. And so there will be multiple winners here. And so that's how I see it. In terms of the other things that we're doing, we have some great capability and great teams in Apple. And so we can do more than one thing, and so we have other things that we're working on as well. But at the aggregate level, we still remain very focused because if you look at our size versus the number of projects we have going, it's much smaller compared to most. But that's how we do things and that's how we get the level of quality that we want out of each one of those. And so the other things that you named, whether it be Apple Music or Apple Pay, both of these are very important to us. And things that you didn't mention, the Mac continues to perform very well. I am still bullish on iPad. We've gotten with iOS 9, there's some incredible productivity enhancements coming in with split view and slide over and picture-in-picture. These things are incredible features. The enterprise business is clearly picking up and more and more companies are either contracting for or writing apps themselves. I think and I believe that the iPad consumer upgrade cycle will eventually occur because as we look at the usage statistics on iPad, it remains unbelievably great. I mean, the next closest usage of the next competitor, we're six times greater. And so these are extraordinary numbers. It's not like people have forgotten iPad or anything. It's a fantastic product. So I see a lot of runway. And as I look geographically, where we've been doing really good in the emerging markets, our share is still not high in any of them, and so there's a lot of headroom there as well, as there is in most developed markets as well. And so I look around, I see opportunity left and right. And that's what we're focused on.

C: Thank you. Tim, there's some concern about what's going on in China with the stock market and economically. How do you think that plays out for Apple? On one hand you've got more stores, broader distribution, the 4G infrastructure is playing out. On the other hand, the economy might be weakening. Is a phone a discretionary purchase or not? How do you think about going forward in China?

Director: Yeah, it's a very good question, and we remain extremely bullish on China and we're continuing to invest. Nothing that's happened has changed our fundamental view that China will be Apple's largest market at some point in the future. It's true, as you point out, that the equity markets have recently been volatile. This could create some speed bumps in the near term. But to put it in context, which I think is important, despite that volatility in the Chinese market, they're still up 90% over the last year, and they're up 20% year-to-date, and so these kind of numbers are numbers I think all of us would love. Also, the stock market participation among Chinese household is fairly narrow. And the stock ownership is very concentrated in a few people who put what appears to be a smaller portion of their wealth in the market than we might. And so I think generally this has been, at least as we see it, maybe it's not true for other businesses, that this worry is probably overstated. And so we're not changing anything. We have the pedal to the metal on getting to 40 stores mid next year. As we had talked about before, we're continuing to expand the indirect channel as well. As you point out, and I think this is a major point that many people miss, the LTE penetration in China is only at 12%. And China doesn't possess the level of fiber that some other countries do, and so in order to get the great video performance, et cetera, raising that penetration is really great. I think that really plays to an incredible smartphone future there. Also, and I can't underestimate – I can't overstate this. The rise of the middle class there is continuing, and it is transforming China. McKinsey, I saw a recent study from McKinsey that's projecting the upper middle class to grow from 14% to 54% of households over the ten-year period from 2012 to 2022. So we're within that period at this moment, and you can see for all of us that travel there so much, with every trip you can see this occurring. And so I think we would be foolish to change our plans. I think China is a fantastic geography with an incredible unprecedented level of opportunity there.

Director: Yeah, Shannon, it's Tim. Maybe the best way to talk about this is sort of at the product level. On the Watch, our June sales were higher than April or May. I realize that's very different than what some of the, is being written, but the June sales were the highest. And so the Watch had a more of a back-ended kind of a skewing. The phone itself followed what I would call a normal seasonal kind of pattern. And if you look at the – it sounds like you're honing in on the Greater China results themselves. There is no obvious impact from the last quarter in the Greater China numbers. And obviously with the aggregate or the consolidated number being 112%, it's hard to find a lot of bad things in the numbers.

Cook: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon everyone, and thanks for joining us. Today, we are reporting a very strong finish to a record breaking year and I’d like to reflect on some of the highlights. We completed our fiscal year in September, and we are proud to report revenue of $234 billion, an increase of 28% and $51 billion over 2014. This is our largest absolute revenue growth ever. To put that into some context, our growth in one year was greater than the full year revenue of almost 90% of the companies in the Fortune 500. We made huge inroads into emerging markets generating over $79 billion in revenue and growing 63% despite very strong headwinds from foreign exchange rates. These results are made possible by Apple’s commitment to innovation and creating the best products on earth. In the past 12 months around the world we’ve sold over 300 million devices including 231 million iPhones, 55 million iPads and 21 million Macs setting new unit records and increasing our global market share for both iPhone and Mac. We crossed 100 billion cumulative downloads from the App Store and we added powerful new services to our ecosystem, including Apple Pay in the United States, in the United Kingdom, Apple Music in over a 100 countries, and Apple News in the U.S. We also entered an entirely new category with Apple Watch and we are in the very early innings of this promising new part of our business. We generated over $53 billion dollars in net income and grew earnings per share by 43%. We returned almost $50 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases while continuing to invest confidently in research and development, marketing and distribution, our retail and online stores, our supply chain and our infrastructure. We also completed 15 acquisitions to enhance and accelerate our roadmap for products and services. We accomplished all of these things while intensifying our efforts to protect the environment to promote equality and human rights and to ensure the security and privacy we know our customers deserve. We are ending the year on a high note with a record breaking September quarter including sales of 48 million iPhones beating our expectations and up 22% year-over-year. Momentum for iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus remained very strong across the quarter and we established a new launch record for iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus near the end of the quarter. We are seeing strong interest around the world and we’ve been getting great feedback from customers who love the iPhone’s new features including 3D touch, live photos, the new iSight camera, and the powerful new A-9 processor in the iPhone 6s and 6s Plus. We exited the quarter with demand for our new iPhones exceeding supply but we’ve made good progress with our manufacturing ramp in the initial weeks of October. We sold an all time record 5.7 million Macs continuing to defy the negative trend in the global personal computer market which IDC estimates contracted by 11%. The App Store set new all-time quarterly records for both the number of transacting customers and overall revenue. The strong performance of the App Store helped fuel $5.1 billion in services revenue also an all-time record. Sales of Apple Watch were also up sequentially and were ahead of our expectations. This quarter we introduced beautiful new Apple Watch cases and bands including new Gold and Rose Gold aluminum Apple Watch Sport models. We released Watch OS 2 in September paving the way for a whole new class of native apps that are faster and can take advantage of the hardware capabilities of Apple Watch such as the microphone, speaker and the heart rate sensor. Today, there are over 13,000 apps in the Watch App Store including over 1300 native apps such as Facebook messenger, MLB At Bat and Runkeeper and the number is growing rapidly. Apple Watch has already had a tremendous effect on customers’ health and fitness and the stories we’re hearing about its impact are truly inspirational. I personally heard from people who credit Apple Watch with saving their lives and customers are finding new applications all the time in their day to day activities. Revenue in Greater China nearly doubled year-over-year and we continue to focus and invest heavily there. I just returned from a four day visit to Hangzhou and Beijing where we announced major new initiatives to provide renewable energy for our supply chain. I also visited our retail stores in China which are among the busiest in the world. On Saturday we opened a new store, our 25th in Greater China to a very enthusiastic crowd and we are on track to achieve our goal of 40 stores by the middle of next year. Yesterday, we started taking orders for the all new Apple TV and it was a huge first day for this exciting new product. We want to provide the same innovation in the living room that we delivered in our iOS devices. People are already watching more TV through apps today and we think apps represent the future of TV. We’ve built a new foundation around this vision with a new operating system called tvOS innovative ways to connect with your screen and a smart use of Siri to search for what to watch. Next month, we’ll begin shipping iPad Pro, the most powerful iPad we’ve ever made. iPad Pro will enable a new generation of apps for entertainment and productivity, design and illustration, engineering and medical and much more, and with the Apple Pencil and Smart keyboards users can customize their experience making iPad Pro an even more powerful tool for everyone from students to artists, to business professionals. iOS 9 has hit the ground running on track to be downloaded by more users than any software release in Apple’s history with 61% of active iOS devices already running at less than six weeks after its September the 16th release. In late September, we also launched OS X El Capitan which has made the world most advanced desktop operating system more refined and powerful than ever before. Apple Music has set a completely new standard, redefining and combining the best ways to enjoy music in a single immersive app. Over 15 million individual and family accounts are experiencing Apple music including over 6.5 million paying customers. We are thrilled to bring Apple Music to China beginning this quarter along with iTunes, movies and iBooks and we are especially happy to offer such great new and diverse content to our large highly engaged and rapidly growing customer base in China. We are also looking forward to bringing Apple Music to the new Apple TV beginning this week. Apple Pay is seeing double digit growth in transaction month after month and we continue to add major businesses including Starbucks which will roll out Apple Pay support to all its U.S. stores in 2016. Apple Pay now supports merchant rewards programs as well and popular retailers that will be coming online in the next few weeks. We are thrilled to announce today that we are partnering with American Express to bring Apple Pay to eligible customers in key global markets so even more people can experience the easy, secure and private way to pay. Apple Pay will be available to eligible American Express customers in Australia, in Canada this year and is expected to expand to Spain, Singapore and Hong Kong in 2016. The reach of our ecosystem continues to grow and iOS is changing more and more aspects of our customer’s lives in very meaningful ways from their health, to their homes, to their cars. In Health, there are now more than 1,600 health kit enabled solutions that are helping us live a healthier day. In the home there are over 50 brands working on home kit enabled accessories that can be privately and securely controlled from your iPad and iPhone, and in the car more than 50 automobile models have been announced with CarPlay support which provides a smarter, safer and more fun way to use iPhone in the car. And we will continue to work to make the iOS experience even more meaningful across more touch points of our daily lives. The impact of research kit also continues to build. We recently announced new studies on autism, epilepsy and melanoma adding to the important studies already underway on conditions from asthma to diabetes to Parkinson’s disease. Our iOS news app is off to a great start. Nearly 40 million people are reading Apple news and we’ve been getting very positive feedback from the publishers. We have now signed more than 70 publishers representing hundreds of titles and we’re happy to announce that news just launched in the United Kingdom and Australia with partners such as the BBC, NewsCorp, The Telegraph, The Guardian, Financial Times, Daily Mail and the Australian Broadcasting Service. And finally, we are making great strides in the enterprise market, announcing a new strategic partnership with Cisco in September while furthering our progress with IBM in building our mobility partners program. We estimate that enterprise markets accounted for about $25 billion in annual Apple revenue in the last 12 months, up 40% over the prior year and they represent a major growth vector for the future. I’d like to thank our talented and incredibly hardworking employees, our developers and our business partners around the world and of course our very loyal customers for making 2015 Apples’ most successful year yet. With that, I’ll turn the call over to

Maestri: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. It’s great to conclude our record fiscal 2015 with our strongest September quarter ever. Revenue for the quarter was $51.5 billion, an increase of $9.4 billion or 22% year over year. Our growth was driven by the tremendous performance of iPhone, the expanded availability of Apple Watch and all time high services revenue and Mac sales. We achieved these outstanding results despite severe and persisting weakness in foreign exchange rates around the world that affected all our geographic segments and this makes our year-over-year growth rates even more remarkable. In constant currency, our growth during the fourth quarter would have been 800 basis points higher. We once again reported very strong numbers in Greater China with revenue growing 99% year-over-year to $12.5 billion. Emerging markets performance was strong overall up 65% year-over-year and representing 31% of total company revenue for the quarter. Company gross margin was 39.9%, up sequentially better than our expectations, mainly due to lower than expected costs. Operating margin was 28.4% of revenue and net income was $11.1 billion, a new September quarter record. Diluted earnings per share were $1.96, a 38% year-over-year increase and cash flow from operations was $13.5 billion, also a new fourth quarter record. For details by product I'll start with iPhone. We sold 48 million iPhones in the quarter, up 22% year over year with strong performance around the world throughout the quarter. Total iPhone sales were up 120% in Mainland China and grew over 35% in South Asia and increased by over 20% in several markets around the world including Germany and Italy. iPhone ASP was $670, an increase of $67 year-over-year, thanks to more favorable mix and in spite of the very significant negative impact from foreign exchange that I referred to earlier. We increased iPhone channel inventory by less than 2 million units in order to support our new product launch at the very end of September quarter. We exited the quarter with demand exceeding supply and channel inventory below our target range of 5 to 7 weeks. Next I'd like to talk about the Mac. We sold 5.7 million Macs, which is an all time quarterly record and represents 3% year-over-year growth. We extended our very long running trend of PC market share gains based on IDC's latest estimate of a 11% global market contraction. Mac growth was driven primarily by the great customer response to our new MacBook and sales of MacBook Pro also remained strong. We ended the quarter below our 4 to 5 week target range for Mac channel inventory. Turning to iPad. We sold 9.9 million compared to 12.3 million in the year-ago quarter. iPad sell-through was 10.4 million as we reduced channel inventory by about 500,000 units. We exited the quarter below our 5 to 7 week target range of iPad channel inventory. iPad customer metrics remain extremely positive. In August, ChangeWave measured a 97% consumer satisfaction rate for iPad Air 2 and among consumers planning to purchase a tablet within 90 days, 70% planned to purchase an iPad. Corporate buyers reported a 95% satisfaction rate for iPad and a 90 day purchase intent of 73%. In the segments of the tablet market where we compete, we continue to be very successful. Recent data from NPD indicates that iPad has 73% share of the U.S. market for tablets priced above $200. And the latest data published by IDC indicates that iPad has 74% share of the U.S. Commercial Tablet market. As Tim mentioned our enterprise initiatives continue to expand. In September we announced a new strategic partnership with Cisco to optimize their networks for iOS devices with a goal of providing iOS mobile users with great performance advantage over other mobile platforms. Also, during the September quarter, IBM released new mobile first for iOS apps in healthcare, financial services, travel and transportation and industrial sectors, including new apps leveraging iOS 9 and Watch OS 2. There are now 55 apps in the IBM mobile first for iOS catalogue and the list of projects signings is growing rapidly. Inside IBM, Macs are gaining tremendous traction. There are currently over 30,000 Macs deployed within the company with 1,900 more being added each week. IBM tells us that each Mac is saving $270 compared to a traditional PC, thanks to the much reduced support cost and better residual value. This is a terrific example of the kind of opportunity our devices offer to improve user experience and create value in the enterprise world. Our mobility partner program also continues to grow with more than 25 new partners added in the September quarter bringing the total to over 65 and we are already seeing some great success stories with this program. We are also very excited about the potential of iPad Pro and the enterprise. For example, with the Bloomberg professional app, more than 325,000 financial professionals will be able to use iPad Pro to gain instant global access to finance and business news, market data and portfolio tracking and trading tools. Turning to services. We generated $5.1 billion in revenue, a new all-time record, and an increase of 10% over last year mainly due to strong growth from apps. The revenue from the App Store increased 25% and the number of transacting customers grew 18%, also setting an all-time record. Services growth was particularly impressive in China, where Apple App Store revenue grew by 127% year-over-year. The momentum behind the App Store in China has been tremendous with huge interest from developers and customers alike. Our developer program in China has grown dramatically in the last year with over 1 million members in our program today. Revenue from other products grew strongly up 61% over last year, thanks to the growing contribution from Apple Watch. We expanded Apple Watch distribution significantly over the course of the quarter and it was available at almost 5000 locations in 32 countries at quarter end. Our retail and online stores had a very busy quarter. We opened 7 new stores, including our first store in Belgium. That brought us to a global store count of 463 of which 195 are in 15 countries outside the United States. In fiscal 2016, we expect to open or replace between 40 and 50 stores and we continue to place particular emphasis on Greater China where we plan to have 40 stores opened by the middle of next year. Customers have been very interested in the iPhone upgrade program offered in our U.S. retail stores. The iPhone upgrade program gives customer purchasing a connected device an easy convenient way to get a new phone every year with low monthly payments to a third party lender along with the security and protection of AppleCare Plus. After making 12 or more installment payments, customers can upgrade to a new iPhone. Let me also quickly discuss three accounting matters. First, relative to the iPhone upgrade program that I just mentioned, we will be reducing revenue at the time of sale for the cost associated with the program and deferring the portion of revenue related to AppleCare software upgrade rights and non software services for each iPhone sold. Second, in September based on an analysis of market offerings we reduced the estimated selling price of future software upgrade rights and non software services that we defer for each iOS device and Mac sold, the reduction is between $5 and $10 per unit. Third, also in September we lengthened the time period over which the deferred revenue associated to iPads will be recognized from two years to three years. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $205.7 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $2.8 billion. $187 billion of this cash, or 91% of the total, was outside of the United States. In the September quarter, we issued a total of $5.8 billion of term debt, consisting of 1.25 billion British pound denominated notes, 2.25 billion Australian dollar denominated notes and 2 billion euro denominated notes. This left us with $56 billion of term debt outstanding at the end of the quarter. We were very active in the market during the quarter and returned over $17 billion to our investors. We paid $3 billion in dividends and equivalents and we spent $14 billion to repurchase almost 122 million Apple shares through open market transactions. We also completed our fifth accelerated share repurchase program in July and retired an additional 10 million shares at settlement. We have now completed over $143 billion of our $200 billion program including $104 billion in share repurchases of which $36 billion was repurchased in fiscal 2015 alone. Now, as we move ahead into December quarter, I like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $75.5 and $77.5 billion compared to $74.6 billion in the year ago quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 39% and 40%. We expect OpEx to be between $6.3 billion and $6.4 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $400 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 26.2%. Also today our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.52 per share of common stock payable on November 12, 2015 to shareholders of record as of

Paxton: Thank you, Luca. And we ask that you limit yourself to one, one-part question and one follow-up. May we have the first question, please?

Cook: Yes. If you look at China, we grew from an iPhone point of view, Greater China, we grew 87% the market grew for. If you take iPhone out of the market number, the certain market x iPhone actually contracted slightly. And so, we've been able to grow without the market growing. iPhone 6 was the number one selling smartphone in Mainland, China last quarter and iPhone 6 Plus was number three. And so, we did fairly well. The sort of the economic question which I know there's a bit lot of attention on, frankly, if I were to shut off my web and shut off the TV and just look how many customers are coming in our stores regardless to whether they're buying, how many people are coming online, and in addition looking at our sales trend, I wouldn't know if there was any economic issue at all in China. And so I don't know how unusual we are with that. I think that there's a misunderstanding probably particularly in the Western world about China's economy, which contributes to the confusion. That said, I don't think it’s growing as fast as it was, but I also don't think that Apple's results are largely dependent on minor changes than growth. I think it’s much more of contributing – I think other things contribute to that much more. That does say, you'll never had problem there, because the economy, I'm not saying, I'm dumb enough to think that. But I just think that the area that it's currently operating within, it's hard to tell the difference of the consumer level for us. I mean, you really can't tell the difference, if you look at sort of our daily and weekly numbers. So, we're very bullish on it, and I would point out that we're investing in China not for next or the quarter after, or the quarter after, we're investing for the decades ahead and as we look at it our own views is that China will be Apple's top market in the world. And that's not just for sales, that's also developer community is growing faster than any other country in the world. And so, the ecosystem there is very, very strong. I was very impressed with the number the developers I met last week and of course, the customers in stores are enthusiastically contagious.

Milunovich: Thank you. Tim, I wanted to talk about the two sources of your iPhone demand selling to current customers and selling to new customers. In terms of selling to current customers you indicated about a third of the base is moved to the sixth line. As much as people talk about that been a huge upgrade cycle and what is the six has have incrementally, 33% not that a bigger number, I would have thought it would be bigger than that. Does this suggest that there is maybe more of a consistency to upgrading than the street perceives. And then on the other side in terms of new customers, just wanted clarity on the switcher number, are you saying that 30% of iPhone shipments in the quarter went to android switchers to IOS. And do you believe that you could actually have more new customers to

Cook: There's a lot there. Let me start with the Android Switcher. What this means is that for customers to purchase an iPhone last quarter and replace the smartphone that 30% of those switched from an android device. And so there would have been some switchers on top of that from other operating systems, but obviously android is the largest one by far. And so that's what that means, and that number is the largest that we've ever recorded since we began measuring it three or so years ago. And so, it’s a huge number, we're very, very proud of that number. In terms of 2016 versus 2015 new customers, it's hard to predict. I'm very happy with how we're doing. We're doing better than we've ever been doing. People -- I know there's a fixation on the upgrade rate. When I look at the upgrade rate, Steve, what I see is I feel good that it’s a low number because that's low number means that there is 69% of the people that are out there prior to the iPhone 6 and 6 plus that haven't bother to upgrade this year. That's a large number. And so, I'd see that is opportunity. Do I think it has anything, does to length to consistency? I think part of it is and I believe that the iPhone upgrade plans that are out there as I've mentioned before it seems to me on the future. We'll tell it’s true or not, but it seems to me it’s going to act as a catalyst to accelerate some of this upgrades. And I think that's not something that we're going to see this quarter or next quarter, but it seems like it’s going to happen beginning a year for now or so. It have begins to be – you've seen the plan. They look more and active like a subscription than they do like a purchase. And that's great for the customer because many of them want to upgrade on a frequent basis and they can do this very, very simply. In terms of new, I don't know, whether we'll more new or not. I can tell you that that's always our objective. We want to add a lot more people to the ecosystem and certainly if you look in the emerging markets, even like, nobody is asking about iPad on the call. But if you look at iPad as just an example, in China, 68% of the people that purchased an iPad it was the first tablet they've owned and 40% of those have never owned any Apple product. Just to go through one product with one set of number. I don't want to get through a bunch of numbers because it does contain the data than I don't want to share. But these are things that we're very focused on. And the first time buyer number is surprisingly strong. And keep in mind that we have a good history of bunch of people buy one Apple product, they have a great experience. They begin to look at other Apple products.

Jankowski: Hi. Thank you very much. Just is a follow-up to that last question and to put that in context, roughly what percent of the iPhone shipments come from shipments for the installed based versus from your user shipment?

Jankowski: Okay. And then just a follow-up, as Luca mentioned, you had to make some adjustments to the pricing in various regions given the currency move we've had. What had been the response in terms of demand, I guess both in terms of units and revenues in some of these regions like Japan or India, parts of Europe where the local prices has to go up?

Cook: Yes. Let me give you puts and takes for margins for the December quarter. On the positive side, of course as you mentioned that we would have positive leverage from the higher seasonal volumes. Also what we've seen over the last several quarters is a commodity environment that has been quite favorable and we expect it to remain favorable during the December quarter. On the other hand, of course we are launching a lot of new products. We’ve launched some during September. We are launching some now and everything we launch new products, we make them better. We had features and new technology and these products when we launch and tend to have higher cost structures than the products what they replaced. We have a very good track record overtime to reduce those cost structures, but every time we introduce a new product that is a headwind at the beginning of the cycle for gross margin. While it’s different from a year ago very significantly with the foreign exchange impact that we have mentioned before it remains a very significant headwind as I mentioned earlier to Tony I believe we are dealing with that to a combination of hedging, price realignments cost initiatives, but on a net basis foreign exchange we will clearly by a sequential headwind.

Daryanani: Got it. And then Tim when you talk about seeing iPhone growth in fiscal Q1, I’m curious is that statement more reflective of iPhone units or iPhone revenues so that the ASPs could hardly get growth even if units are not there. And then would you expect to exit within the 5 to 7 week optimal inventory range in fiscal Q1?

Cook: I don’t know that we will exit. We make that call late in the quarter as we see what the demand is because we are actually trying to position the inventory for the following quarter instead of the current quarter. And it’s very difficult to predict. What was your other question?

Daryanani: I was just curious to your statement on iPhone growth in fiscal Q1, is that a reflection of….

Cook: That’s a really good question. We actually solved that problem back in 2007. But then quickly had to change it in order to scale in a major way. And so that is something that we would always -- sort of always in our mind that one day from a customer experience point of view we would like to make things as easy as possible for the customer. And to some degree you can already do that with buying online. But there are many different plans and search what the people buy, that they have to come in for several times we would love to have that automated and working with our partners, with service providers.

Cook: Thanks, Nancy, and good afternoon, everyone, and thank you very much for joining us. Today, we're reporting Apple's strongest financial results ever. We generated all-time record quarterly revenue of $75.9 billion in the December quarter, in line with our expectations and up 2% over last year's blockbuster results. This is a huge accomplishment for our company, especially given the turbulent world around us. In constant currency, our growth rate would have been 8%. Our record revenue and continued strong operating performance also led to an all-time record quarterly net income of $18.4 billion. We sold 74.8 million iPhones in the December quarter, an all-time high. To put that volume into perspective, it's an average of over 34,000 iPhones an hour, 24 hours a day, seven days a week for 13 straight weeks. It's almost 50% more than our Q1 volume just two years ago and more than four times our volume five years ago. 74.8 million iPhones is an incredible number and it speaks to both the immense popularity of iPhone and the phenomenal execution of our teams to deliver a massive number of devices in such a short period of time. Our results are particularly impressive, given the challenging global macroeconomic environment. We're seeing extreme conditions unlike anything we've experienced before just about everywhere we look. Major markets, including Brazil, Russia, Japan, Canada, Southeast Asia, Australia, Turkey and the eurozone, have been impacted by slowing economic growth, falling commodity prices and weakening currencies. Since the end of fiscal 2014, for instance, the euro and British pound are down double-digits, and major currencies such as the Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Mexican peso, and Turkish lira have declined 20% or more. The Brazilian real is down more than 40% and the Russian ruble has declined more than 50%. 66% of Apple's revenue is now generated outside the United States, so foreign currency fluctuations have a very meaningful impact on our results. Page one of our supplemental material illustrates this point. $100 of Apple's non-U.S. dollar revenue in Q4 of 2014 translated to only $85 last quarter due to the weakening currencies in our international markets. As you can see, the movement has been dramatic. Last quarter alone, the currency impact has been very large. Page two of our supplemental material illustrates our Q1 revenue and growth rates expressed in constant currency. The 8% growth rate I spoke about earlier translates to $80.8 billion in constant currency revenue, which is $5 billion more than our reported revenue. For perspective, that difference is about the size of the annual revenue of a Fortune 500 company. We know the conditions in China have been a source of concern for many investors. Last summer, while many companies were experiencing weakness in their China-based results, we were seeing just the opposite, with incredible momentum for iPhone, Mac and the App Store, in particular. In the December quarter, despite the turbulent environment, we produced our best results ever in Greater China, with revenue growing 14% over last year, 47% sequentially, and 17% year-over-year in constant currency. These great results were fueled by our highest ever quarterly iPhone sales and record App Store performance. Notwithstanding these record results, we began to see some signs of economic softness in Greater China earlier this month, most notably in Hong Kong. Beyond the short-term volatility, we remain very confident about the long-term potential of the China market and the large opportunities ahead of us and we are maintaining our investment plans. Despite the economic challenges all over the world, Apple remains incredibly strong. We have a very satisfied and loyal customer base. We saw a greater number of switchers from Android to iPhone than ever in Q1, and we are very optimistic about our business over the long-term. Innovation has always been the reason behind our success and we remain committed to making the best products in the world and expanding the Apple experience to change our customer's lives in better and more meaningful ways. We've invested through economic uncertainty in the past and we've always come out stronger on the other side. In fact, some of the most important breakthrough products in Apple's history were born as a result of investing through the downturn. We've also seen these times as opportunities to invest in new markets, just as we're doing now in areas such as India and other emerging markets. Getting back to our record Q1 performance, let me give you some highlights of what we've accomplished since our last quarterly call together. We shipped the amazing new iPad Pro, which has been extremely well received by customers along with a new smart keyboard and revolutionary Apple Pencil. We launched the all-new Apple TV with its own App Store, laying the foundation for the future of television. We had our best quarter by far for Apple TV sales and the number of apps developed for Apple TV is growing rapidly. Today there are over 3,600 apps delivering everything from games to entertainment to educational programming. We expanded distribution of Apple Watch to almost 12,000 locations in 48 countries during the quarter. As we expected, we set a new quarterly record for Apple Watch sales, with especially strong sales in the month of December. We released OS X El Capitan, refining the experience and improving performance for our Mac customers. We also updated the entire iMac family with stunning new retina displays and introduced a new line up of wireless accessories. We launched Apple Pay in Canada and Australia with American Express and announced plans to bring this amazingly convenient, private, and secure mobile payment experience to China, Hong Kong, Spain and Singapore in the coming year. Consumers have spent billions of dollars with Apple Pay. In the second half of 2015, we saw a significant acceleration in usage, with a growth rate 10 times higher than in the first half of the year. There are now over 5 million contactless payment ready locations in the countries where Apple Pay is live today and it's soon to be accepted at thousands of Exxon and Mobil branded stations across the U.S. via their Speedpass+ app. Finally, we also shared the incredible Apple Music experience with even more listeners, with over 10 million paying subscribers less than four months since customers began paying for the service. Our financial position has never been stronger. We had the mother of all balance sheets, with almost $216 billion in cash, which translates to nearly $39 per diluted share of Apple stock. We continue to invest confidently in our future and we also continue to return capital to our shareholders at a rapid pace. Our investors have been asking for a while about the recurring nature of our business. Especially during a period of economic uncertainty, we believe it is important to appreciate that a significant portion of Apple's revenue recurs over time. First and foremost, our customer satisfaction and retention rates are second to none and provide us with a long lasting foundation. For example, recent consumer surveys by 451 Research, formerly known as ChangeWave, measured an incredible 99% customer satisfaction rate for iPhone 6S and 6S Plus and an equally impressive 97% rate for the iPad Air 2. They also indicate that our iPhone loyalty rate is almost twice as strong as the next highest brand. In addition, a growing portion of our revenue is directly driven by our existing install base. Because our customers are very satisfied and engaged, they spend a lot of time on their devices and purchase apps, content, and other services. They also are very likely to buy other Apple products or replace the one that they own. And because of the enduring value of the device, their replacing is likely higher to be given or sold to someone who will also love and use it often. So, as a result, our install base has been growing very fast and has recently reached a major milestone, crossing 1 billion active devices for the first time. This is an unbelievable asset for us. Because our install base has grown quickly, we have also seen an acceleration in the growth of our services business, another large and important source of recurring revenues. Now that we have reached this milestone of 1 billion active devices, we felt this would be a great opportunity to share more information on what has become one of the largest service businesses in the world. So now, I'd like to turn the call to Luca, who will provide more insight into how our platform has grown, followed by details on our record quarterly results.

Maestri: Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone. Each quarter, we report results for our Services category, which includes revenue from iTunes, the App Store, AppleCare, iCloud, Apple Pay, licensing, and some other items. Today, we would like to highlight the major drivers of growth in this category, which we have summarized on page three of our supplemental material. The vast majority of the services we provide to our customers, for instance, apps, movies and TV shows, are tied to our installed base of devices, rather than to current quarter sales. For some of these services, such as content, we recognize revenue based on transaction value. For some of the services, such as the App Store, we share a portion of the value of each transaction with the app developer and only recognize revenue on the portion that we keep. To fully comprehend the scale of the services that we are delivering to our installed base and how fast this business is growing, we look at purchases in addition to revenue. When we aggregate the purchase value of services tied to our installed base during fiscal 2015, it adds up to more than $31 billion. That's an increase of 23% over fiscal 2014. In the recent December quarter, purchases of installed base services reached $8.9 billion, which is a growth rate of 24% year-over-year. The size and growth of these services tied to our installed base compare favorably to other services companies you're familiar with. Our installed base services are also quite profitable, with gross margins that, on a purchase value basis, are similar to our company average. Also, we're very excited by the scale and growth of our active installed base, as we indicate on page four. We define an active device as one that has been engaged with our services within the past 90 days. Our active installed base has recently past 1 billion devices with year-over-year growth of more than 25%. Apple is in a unique position of strength. We have world class scales in hardware, software and services all under one roof, which lets us innovate in ways that other companies can't. We have built a huge installed base around four platforms, iOS, Mac OS, watchOS and tvOS. We have tremendously satisfied and loyal customers who are engaged with our services at a fast growing rate. All of this provides us with an unparalleled foundation for the future of Apple business. Let me now turn to the details of our record breaking December quarter. As Tim said, revenue was $75.9 billion, an increase of $1.3 billion or 2% year-over-year. Our growth was driven by all-time record iPhone sales, all-time record revenue from services, the expanded availability of Apple Watch, and the successful launch of the new Apple TV. We achieved this record revenue performance despite a very large negative impact from the weakness of foreign currency and in constant currency; our revenue growth rate was 8%. We once again achieved very impressive results in Greater China, with revenue growing 14% year-over-year and 47% sequentially to an all-time record of $18.4 billion. Emerging markets performance was strong overall, up 11% year-over-year and representing 34% of total company revenue for the quarter. Company gross margin was 40.1%, up sequentially and better than our expectations, mainly due to favorable commodity costs and product mix. Operating margin was 31.9% of revenue and net income was $18.4 billion, a new all-time record. Diluted earnings per share was $3.28, a 7% year-over-year increase over our previous all-time record and cash flow from operations was very strong, at $27.5 billion. For details by product, I will start with iPhone. We sold 74.8 million iPhones in the quarter, an increase of 300,000 compared to last December quarter's sensational results. Total iPhone sales grew 76% in India and more than 45% in Korea, Middle East and Africa. Sales were also up 20% or more in many western European countries and grew 18% in Mainland China. iPhone ASP was $691 compared to $687 in the year ago quarter, in spite of a very unfavorable foreign exchange impact. We continue to see very strong interest in iPhone not only with consumers but also with business users. Among corporate buyers planning to purchase smartphones in the March quarter, 451 Research found that 79% planned to purchase iPhones. That is the highest iPhone purchase intent in the eight-year history of the survey. We started the quarter below our channel inventory target range and thanks to an extremely successful manufacturing ramp; we were able to exit the quarter slightly above the low end of our target range of five to seven weeks of iPhone channel inventory. Next, I'd like to talk about the Mac. We sold 5.3 million Macs compared to 5.5 million last year, a decline of 4%. We continued our long running trend of PC market share gains, based on IDC's latest estimate of an 11% global market contraction, and we were especially happy with 27% year-over-year Mac sales growth in Mainland China. We ended the quarter within our four to five-week target range for Mac channel inventory. Turning to iPad, we sold 16.1 million, compared to 21.4 million in the year ago quarter, and we exited the quarter within our five to seven-week target range of iPad channel inventory. In the segments of the tablet market where we compete, we continue to be highly successful. Recent data from NPD indicates that iPad has 85% share of the U.S. market for tablets priced above $200. And the latest data published by IDC indicates that iPad accounts for 67% of the U.S. commercial tablet market comprising enterprise, government, and education. iPad customer metrics are also extremely positive. In November, 451 Research measured a 97% consumer satisfaction rate for iPad Air 2 and among consumers planning to purchase a tablet within the next six months, 65% plan to purchase an iPad. Corporate buyers reported a 95% satisfaction rate for iPad and a March quarter purchase intent of 73%. Our enterprise initiatives continue to expand. IBM released 48 new IBM MobileFirst for iOS apps in the December quarter and there are now over 100 apps in the IBM MobileFirst for iOS catalog for iPhone, iPad and Apple Watch. Our partnership with Cisco has gained significant momentum since we announced it at the end of August. Our engineering teams are on track to deliver exciting new capabilities that create a fast lane for iOS business users by optimizing Cisco networks for iOS devices and apps, integrate iPhone with Cisco enterprise environments and provide unique collaboration opportunities on iPhone and iPad. We are also continuing to grow our mobility partner program. We added more than 25 partners in the December quarter, bringing the total to over 90. One great example of our progress in the enterprise is Eli Lilly, who boosted sales productivity by equipping 15,000 field based personnel across the world with iPad. A leader in mobile technology, Lilly has eliminated laptops in the field and is upgrading its U.S. field sales teams to iPad Pro. Turning to services, we generated almost $6.1 billion in revenue, including $548 million we received from a patent infringement dispute. Excluding that amount, our services revenue was $5.5 billion, a new all-time record and an increase of 15% over last year, thanks in large part to strong growth from apps. Revenue from the App Store increased 27% and the number of transacting customers grew 18%, also setting an all-time record. Among our customers who purchased apps and content from our iTunes stores, the average amount spent per customer reached an all-time high in the December quarter. Revenue from other products grew strongly, up 62% over last year, thanks to the growing contribution from Apple Watch, as well as the successful launch of the new Apple TV, both of which established new all-time quarterly records. We expanded Apple Watch distribution significantly over the course of the quarter and we experienced especially strong results during the holiday buying season. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $215.7 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $10.1 billion. $200 billion of this cash or 93% of the total was outside the United States. We returned over $9 billion to investors during the quarter. We paid $3 billion in dividends and equivalents and we spent $3 billion to repurchase 26 million Apple shares through open market transactions. We also launched our sixth accelerated share repurchase program, spending $3 billion and receiving an initial delivery of 20.4 million shares. We have now completed over $153 billion of our $200 billion program, including $110 billion in share repurchases. As we have done in the past, we plan to provide an update on our capital return program when we report our second quarter results in April. We also plan to be very active in the U.S. and international debt markets in 2016, in order to fund our capital return activities. Also today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.52 per share of common stock payable on February 11, 2016, to shareholders of record as of February 8, 2016. As we move ahead into the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $50 billion and $53 billion. We are providing a wider range for revenue than usual for the second quarter because of the volatility we are seeing in the economy and in the financial and currency markets. We expect gross margin to be between 39% and 39.5%. We believe these are extremely strong margins in light of the headwinds we face from foreign exchange and the sequential loss of leverage. We expect OpEx to be between $6 billion and $6.1 billion, we expect OI&E to be about $325 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 25.5%. As you know, we don't provide guidance beyond the current quarter and it's difficult for us to forecast economic and foreign exchange factors; however, at this point, we believe the March quarter faces the most difficult year-over-year compare relative to the rest of the year.

Paxton: Thank you, Luca. And we ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow-up. May we have the first question please?

Cook: Yeah. In terms of virtual reality, no, I don't think it's a niche. I think it can be -- it's really cool and has some interesting applications.

Huberty: Yes, thanks. I appreciate the macro comments as it relates to guidance, but can you talk a little bit about how you're thinking consumers might react from an ASP perspective? Do you expect consumers to move down the product line, given the macro environment? And then also, how is channel inventory influencing guidance? Do you feel like channel inventory needs to come down, given the demand trends?

Maestri: Couple of points here, Katy. Our iPhone ASP was $691 during the December quarter. We couldn't be happier with the level of ASP that we generated in the December quarter. Keep in mind that the foreign exchange impact on that number was $49. So, obviously, the mix of products was very strong. We had great reception for the new iPhones that we launched at the end of September. Of course, we have a very strong mid-tier this year in the portfolio, with 6 and 6 Plus. But overall, when you look at the outcome during the December quarter, it was very, very strong. So, we feel very good about that and we feel that we have a very, very strong portfolio for iPhone. On the question around channel inventory, we entered the quarter, the December quarter -- and we mentioned it back in October below our target range of five to seven weeks. We have built a bit of inventory during the course of the December quarter. But we have exited at the low end of the five to seven weeks. So, we feel that we are in good shape there. And we've exited the quarter also on i

Huberty: And then as a follow-up, back in October you guided fiscal 2016 CapEx up over 30%. What's driving that growth? Can you sort of rank it between equipment purchases, data center, and real estate? And given the slowdown that you started to see in December, are you still comfortable with that level of investment growth?

Maestri: Yes. So that is kind of the ranking, Katy. It starts always for us with our tooling and manufacturing process equipment and that is up a bit year-over-year. Then we've got data centers and data centers is a growing expenditure for us, because, as we mentioned in our prepared remarks, our installed base of customers and devices is growing, and is growing very significantly. And the data center capacity that we put in place is to provide the services that are tied to the installed base. So, that type of expenditure goes together with the installed base. And then around facilities, you probably know that we are nearing completion of our new campus here in Cupertino, and so this is the year where we've got our peak requirements in terms of capital.

Sacconaghi: Yes. Thank you. I have a question, a follow-up, please. To start, just on iPhones, it looks like your guidance implies about a 15% to 20% unit decline in iPhones for fiscal Q2, which I think, unless you really see a change in demand profile in the second half, suggests that iPhone units will decline year-over-year for fiscal 2016. And I'd like you to address that question, because the obvious follow-up questions are is that because you believe the smartphone market won't grow or because Apple may be reaching saturation in the market? Is that because Apple's replacement cycle accelerated last year and is decelerating this year and that's why we'll see a decline in units? Or is there something about Apple's ability to gain share in a market where the market is moving to much lower price points? But I'm wondering, and Tim, maybe you're best to answer it, if you can address what appears likely to be a decline in iPhone units and how we put that in the context of how we should think about that, given some healthy data around switchers that you highlighted.

Cook: The market itself, we don't spend a lot of time on predicting. Our view has always been that if we do -- if we make a great product and have a great experience that we ought to be able to convince enough people to move over. And so as I look at sort of your -- maybe your broader umbrella point about a question on saturation, the metrics I see would strongly suggest otherwise. For example, almost half of the iPhones that we sold in China last quarter were to people who were buying their first iPhone. And certainly if you go outside of China into the other emerging markets, our share is much lower and the LTE penetration is so low, I mean in some cases, it's zero, that it indicates to me that there's still a lot of people, a tremendous number of people in the world, that will buy smartphones and we ought to be able to win over our fair share of those.

Sacconaghi: Okay. And I just have clarifications; I don't really have a follow-up question. Luca you had talked about channel inventory increasing, it was 18.4 million for iPhone last quarter. Can you tell us how many more units you had this quarter? And then I'm not sure if I misheard you, but I think you said your total installed base grew 25% year-over-year. Can you confirm that? Because if services grew at 13% and your installed base grew at 25%, it almost implies your penetration of your installed base, in terms of your ability to sell services, is going down.

Maestri: So, -- maybe I'm going to start with services, Toni. The reason why we added this -- I think it's page three of our supplemental material, is to try and explain that a couple of steps. The first one is that of the services that we report, there's a portion, about 85% of all of the services that we report is directly tied to the installed base. There is a smaller portion of our services business that is not related to installed base and more related to when we sell a device. A perfect example would be an Apple Care agreement that you purchase at the time of the sale of the device. And then we are showing that on that portion of installed base driven services business, there is a part that is related to -- where we recognize revenue in terms of the full transaction value. And then there are transactions, like for example, App Store sales, where a portion of the transaction does not get recognized by Apple, but it goes to the developer. So, when you look at it from a purchase value standpoint, actually in the December quarter, we grew 24%, and for the fiscal 2015, we grew at 23%. So, we are growing at very, very healthy levels okay. And to reconfirm the growth of the installed base, yes, it was over 25%. To the question around the channel inventory for iPhone, we grew channel inventory by 3.3 million units during the course of the December quarter. Keep in mind; we started in acquisition where we were below our targeted range.

Cross: Thank you very much. I had a question about gross margin. Luca, you got gross margins of 39% to 39.5% in your guidance and that includes hedging. So, I'm curious about the puts or takes in there. And then can you clarify if within the gross margin this quarter that had the IP licensing contribution, as well? Any color you can give, both on this quarter's gross margin puts and takes, and then also the

White: Tim, could you talk a little bit about the next leg of growth in China? Obviously, Apple has done a phenomenal job there, but where do we see the next leg coming from? And also, you mentioned investing in India. Where do you see that over the next two to three years? I think there's 1 billion mobile subscribers there, almost the size of

Cook: Yeah. Brian, good question. In terms of China, the LTE penetration as of the end of last October, which is the last data I've got, was in the mid-20s. And so there's an enormous upgrade cycle there for people that are still running on 3G handsets. Also, I've talked about this before, but I think it's worth mentioning again, because it's easy to lose perspective with some of the things you read every day, is that the middle-class in China was less than 50 million people in 2010, and by 2020, it's projected to be about half a billion. And so there's just an enormous number of people moving into the middle-class. And we think this provides us a great opportunity to win over some of those customers into the Apple ecosystem. And so I think the demographics are great. We're continuing to invest in retail stores. Angela and her team have been on this very aggressive rollout plan. We now have 28 stores in Greater China and we're on target to have 40 in the summertime of this year. And so we're continuing on distribution. Obviously, we've got product things in mind and are crafting our products and services with China heavily in mind. We remain very bullish on China and don't subscribe to the doom and gloom kind of predictions frankly. In India, India is also incredibly exciting. India's growth, as you know, is very good. It's quickly becoming the fastest growing BRIC country. It's the third largest smartphone market in the world, behind China and the United States. The population of India is incredibly young. The median age there is 27. I think of the China age being young, at 36, 37 and so 27 is unbelievable. Almost half the people in India are below 25. And so I see the demographics there also being incredibly great for a consumer brand and for people that really want the best products. And as you know, we've been putting increasingly more energy in India. India revenue for us in Q1 was up 38%. We also had currency issues in India, as everybody else did. Constant currency growth was 48%. And so it's a very rapidly expanding country. And I think the government there is very interested economic reforms and so forth that I think all speak to a really good business environment for the future.

Garcha: Thank you. My question's for Tim on the iPhone business. You talk a lot about the macroeconomic weakness weighing on units, but is some of the issue just that last year replacement got accelerated and this year it's kind of normalizing, and that's kind of a one-time headwind in terms of the unit growth that you see in that business. Is any of that going on, or is that not material, in your view? And the other follow-up I had was that you've mentioned in recent calls, helpfully, the percent of the base, prior to when the 6 came out, that were now on the larger screen phones. Can you give us an update on what that number is?

Director: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today we're reporting the results of a very busy and challenging quarter, and we're also announcing an update to our capital return program. Revenue for the quarter was $50.6 billion, which was within our guidance range. Despite the pause in our growth, our results reflect excellent execution by our team in the face of ongoing macroeconomic headwinds in much of the world and difficult year-over-year comparisons. We saw continued currency weakness in the vast majority of our international markets. In constant currency, our revenue declined by 9% from last year, 400 basis points less than the reported decline of 13%. For the first half of the fiscal year, our revenue in constant currency was up 1% year on year. Despite challenges, there were a number of encouraging signs during the quarter. Our installed base of over 1 billion active devices continued to grow strongly. We added a huge number of Android switchers and new-to-Mac customers, and we generated very strong growth from Services. We sold 51.2 million iPhones in the quarter, consistent with the range of our own expectations but lower than the exceptional year-ago quarter when we saw an acceleration in iPhone upgrades and 40% iPhone sales growth over the previous year.

Phone sales come from three sources: customers who upgrade from previous iPhone models; customers who switch from Android and other operating systems; and customers who purchase a smartphone for the first time. As we look at each of these three sources of iPhone sales, we see a business that is healthy and strong. First, from an upgrade perspective, during the first half of this year the upgrade rate for the iPhone 6s cycle has been slightly higher than what we experienced in the iPhone 5s cycle two years ago, but it is lower than the accelerated upgrade rate that we saw with iPhone 6, which as you know was a big contributor to our phenomenal revenue growth a year ago. Most importantly, our customers are incredibly loyal. A recent Kantar survey of U.S. smartphone purchasers indicated a 95% iPhone loyalty rate, the highest ever measured for any smartphone. Second, we continue to see a very high level of customers switching to iPhone from Android and other operating systems. In fact, we added more switchers from Android and other platforms in the first half of this year than any other six-month period ever. And third, with only 42% smartphone penetration of the global handset market today, iPhone is still attracting millions of first-time smartphone buyers each quarter, especially from emerging markets. For example, in India our iPhone sales were up 56% from a year ago. Next I'd like to talk about Services, which was our second largest revenue-generating category during the quarter. Setting aside the amount we received from a patent settlement in the December quarter, the March quarter Services revenue was our highest ever. Services revenue jumped 20% to $6 billion. App Store revenue was up 35% to beat last quarter's all-time record. And Apple Music continues to grow in popularity, with over 13 million paying subscribers today. We feel really great about the early success of Apple's first subscription business, and our Music revenue has now hit an inflection point after many quarters of decline. The Services business is powered by our huge installed base of active devices, which crossed 1 billion units earlier this year. As we discussed on this call in January, those 1 billion-plus active devices are a source of recurring revenue that is growing independent of the unit shipments we report every three months. In fact, the purchase value of services tied to our installed base was a record $9.9 billion in the March quarter, up 27% over last year, accelerating from the 24% growth rate we reported in the December quarter. The reach of Apple Pay also continues to expand following a very successful launch in China in the March quarter and last week's rollout in Singapore. Apple Pay is growing at a tremendous rate, with more than five times the transaction volume of a year ago and 1 million new users per week. There are more than 10 million contactless-ready locations in the countries where Apple Pay has launched to date, including over 2.5 million locations now accepting Apple Pay in the United States, and more expansion of Apple Pay is coming soon. Turning to the Mac, we met our sell-in expectations in addition to reducing channel inventory by about 100,000 units. Overall, the Mac continues to attract a large percentage of new customers. In our latest survey of major markets, over half of buyers were new to the Mac. And in some countries, the percentage is extremely high, like in China, where over 80% of customers were purchasing a Mac for the first time. We're confident in our Mac business and our ability to continue to innovate and gain share in that area. Turning to the Apple Watch, unit sales met our expectations in the quarter. For some color on how we think about Apple Watch sales, we expect its seasonality to be similar to the historical seasonality of iPod, which typically generated 40% or more of its annual unit sell-through in the December quarter. We started shipping Apple Watch just one year ago, and it has quickly become the best-selling and most loved smartwatch in the world. In fact, unit sales of Apple Watch during its first year exceeded sales of iPhone in its first year. Last month, we refreshed the lineup for the spring with new bands and a new starting price point, and the response from customers has been great. Apple Watch is an increasingly essential part of users' lives, from responding to messages, managing calendars and navigating with maps, to helping them be more fit. And in some cases, the heart rate sensor has even helped save lives. We're really excited about the first year with Apple Watch. We have learned a lot, and we believe it has an exciting future head. We announced some fantastic new products during the March quarter. IPhone SE became available on March 31, so none of its sales were reflected in our second quarter results. But so far this quarter we're seeing terrific customer response. IPhone SE is the most powerful four-inch phone ever, and it's a great option for customers all over the world who want a compact phone with advanced features and a great price without compromising performance. Demand has been very strong and exceeds supply at this point, but we're working hard to get the iPhone SE into the hands of every customer who wants one as quickly as possible. The addition of the iPhone SE in the iPhone lineup places us in a better strategic position to attract even more customers into our ecosystem. We also unveiled the stunning 9.7-inch iPad Pro with cutting-edge performance and our most advanced display yet. The reviews of our new iPad Pros have been great, and we're hearing from customers that the features and capabilities in the new Pros make them both the ultimate upgrade for iPad owners and a great PC replacement. In the June quarter, we expect to see our best iPad revenue compare in over two years. IPad is the best selling, best reviewed, and most used tablet on the market. Customers tell us that they love iPad for its unique mix of portability, capability, and versatility, with over 1 million iPad apps in the App Store to help them work, play, learn, and create. We also announced CareKit, a new software framework that developers can use to help people take a more active role in their health by keeping track of their care plans, monitoring their symptoms and medication, and delivering the insights they need to make smart decisions about their health. We're very excited about the ways iPhone and Apple Watch are helping people lead healthier lives. We believe there's great promise here for the future, and we are very interested in where this can take us. As always, we're contributing to society beyond our products, promoting the use of renewable energy across our facilities and inside our supply chain and developing cutting-edge technologies to revolutionize recycling of the materials we use. We are unwavering in our commitment to protect the security and privacy of our customers and their data, and we're actively promoting inclusion and equality across our business. As we continue through the June quarter, I'd like to remind you that we measure the health of customer demand based on sell-through. Despite ending Q2 within our channel inventory targets, in light of the macroeconomic environment, we plan to lower our channel inventories in the June quarter. This will impact our reported revenue in Q3. Luca will provide more details on this in his commentary. But before I turn over the call to him, I'll summarize by saying that the future of Apple is very bright. Our product pipeline has amazing innovations in store. We're very excited about bringing together developers for our four major platforms at our Worldwide Developers Conference in June. We are forging ahead with important investments in research and development, in our infrastructure, and in our supply chain. We've made 15 acquisitions in the last four quarters to accelerate our product and Services roadmaps, and we're always on the lookout for companies with great technology, talent, and strategic fit. Creating value for shareholders by developing great products and services that enrich people's lives will always be our top priority and the key factor driving our investment and capital allocation decisions. As our business continues to generate high levels of free cash flow, we are in the fortunate position to expand our capital return program again this year, as we have done each year since we started the program four years ago. Today we're announcing an extension of the timeframe of the program by four quarters through March of 2018, and we are expanding the total program size from $200 billion to $250 billion. Luca has more details on this announcement and our results for the March quarter. Luca?

President: Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone. Let me start with the March quarter results. Revenue for the quarter landed within our guidance range of $50.6 billion compared to $58 billion in the year-ago quarter, a decline of 13%. As we had expected, our comparisons to last year were influenced by the continued strength of the U.S. dollar against foreign currencies. As Tim said, in constant currency, our revenue declined by 9%. On a geographic basis, in Asia, our revenue grew strongly in Japan, but it declined in greater China and the rest of Asia-Pacific. However, our business in these two regions is faring better than the numbers might suggest. We had significant channel inventory reductions and currency weakness, which affected our reported revenue for both these segments. In Mainland China, revenue was down 11%, and the decline was 7% in constant currency terms. Keep in mind that we were up against an extremely difficult year-ago compare when our Mainland China revenue grew 81%. We remain very optimistic about the China market over the long term, and we are committed to investing there for the long run. Gross margin was 39.4%, near the high end of our guidance range, thanks to strong cost performance. Operating margin was 27.7% of revenue, and net income was $10.5 billion. Diluted earnings per share were $1.90, and cash flow from operations was strong at $11.6 billion. For details by product, I'll start with iPhone. We sold 51.2 million iPhones in the quarter compared to 61.2 million in the year-ago quarter, a decline of 16%. It was a particularly challenging comparison to the record quarter a year ago, when iPhone sales grew 40%, as we entered last March quarter in supply/demand imbalance, which was recovered during the quarter. Also, this year we reduced channel inventory by 450,000 units while we increased inventory by 1 million units a year ago. We have exited the quarter within our five-week to seven-week target range for channel inventory. iPhone ASP was $642 compared to $659 in the year-ago quarter, with weak international currencies and very popular mid-tier and entry offerings contributing to the difference year over year. iPhone's momentum in business markets continues to be very impressive. A recent survey by 451 Research, formerly known as ChangeWave, found that among U.S. corporate buyers planning to purchase smartphones in the June quarter, 78% plan to purchase iPhones. That's the highest June quarter iPhone purchase intent ever measured by the survey and five points higher than a year ago. Turning to Services, we generated $6 billion in revenue, an increase of 20% over the March quarter last year, thanks primarily to the continued strong performance of the App Store, with revenue growing 35% to a new all-time high. According to App Annie, the App Store generated 90% more global revenue than Google Play in the March quarter, up from a 75% lead in 2015. Among our customers who purchased apps and content from our iTunes Store's, the average amount spent per customer reached a new all-time record in the March quarter. Next, I'd like to talk about the Mac. We sold 4 million Macs compared to 4.6 million last year, a decline of 12%. It was a challenging quarter for personal computer sales across the industry, but we believe we gained market share. Despite the overall market slowdown, we generated double-digit Mac growth in a number of markets, including Russia, Korea, Singapore, Taiwan, and the UAE. And just last week we updated the MacBook, our thinnest and lightest Mac, with the latest processors, faster graphics, faster flash storage, and longer battery life. We think our customers are going to love this update. We ended the quarter within our four-week to five-week target range for Mac channel inventory. Turning to iPad, we sold 10.3 million units compared to 12.6 million units in the year-ago quarter. We also reduced channel inventory by about 200,000 units, and we exited the quarter within our five-week to seven-week target range. In the segments of the tablet market where we compete, we continue to be highly successful. Recent data from NPD indicates that iPad has 78% share of the U.S. market for tablets priced above $200. And the latest data published by IDC indicates that iPad accounts for 72% of the U.S. commercial tablet market, comprising business, government, and education. iPad customer metrics are also extremely positive. In February, 451 Research measured a 97% consumer satisfaction rate for iPad Air 2. And among consumers planning to purchase a tablet within the next six months, 59% plan to purchase an iPad, more than three times the purchase intention rate of the next highest brand measured. Corporate buyers reported a 94% satisfaction rate for iPad, and the June quarter purchase intent of 71%. Revenue from other products grew 30% over last year thanks to Apple Watch. We have expanded distribution to 60 countries and introduced bands in beautiful new colors for spring, so customers can personalize their watches in more ways with a range of colors, styles, and materials. Our customers are very happy with Apple Watch, with 451 Research measuring 94% customer satisfaction. We're also making great progress with our enterprise initiatives. IBM now has engagements for more than 200 deployments of native iOS apps for large enterprise customers to accelerate mobile transformation. Our Mobility Partner program also continues to grow, with 108 partners across 20 countries. We see continued broad industry adoption of native iOS apps to transform how professionals do their work and serve their customers. For example, retail bankers are using iOS apps on iPads to greet and onboard customers, reduce queue times, and improve the customer experience. And in hospitals, doctors and nurses are using iOS apps on iPhone and iPad to share and communicate more effectively so that they can spend more time with patients and less time on administrative tasks. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $232.9 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $17.2 billion. $208.9 billion of this cash, or 90% of the total, was outside the United States. We issued $15.5 billion in U.S. dollar denominated notes during the quarter, including our first green bond tranche to fund initiatives such as renewable energy and environmental design projects. We exited the March quarter with $72 billion in term debt. We returned $10 billion to investors during the quarter, including $2.9 billion in dividends and equivalents and $7 billion on repurchases of 71.8 million Apple shares through open market transactions. We have now completed over $163 billion of the current $200 billion capital return program, including $117 billion in share repurchases. As Tim mentioned, today we are announcing the latest update to our program, which we are increasing to a total of $250 billion. Once again, we're allocating the majority of the expansion of the program to share repurchases. Given our strong confidence in Apple's future and the value we see in our stock, the board has increased the share repurchase authorization by $35 billion, raising it from the current $140 billion level to $175 billion. We will also continue to net share settle vesting employee restricted stock units. We also know that the dividend is very important to many of our investors who value income, and we are raising it for the fourth time in less than four years. The quarterly dividend will grow from $0.52 per share to $0.57 per share, an increase of about 10%. This is effective with our next dividend, which the board has declared today and is payable on May 12, 2016 to shareholders of record as of May 9, 2016. We continue to plan for annual dividend increases going forward. With $12 billion in annual dividend payments, we are proud to be one of the largest dividend payers in the world. In total, with this updated program, during the next eight quarters we expect to return $87 billion to our investors, which represents about 15% of our market cap at the current stock price. As in the past, we expect to fund our capital return program with U.S. cash, future U.S. cash flow generation, and borrowing from both domestic and international debt markets. We will continue to review capital allocation regularly and solicit input on our program from a broad base of shareholders. This allows us to be thoughtful about the size, the mix, and the pace of the program. As we move ahead into the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $41 billion and $43 billion. The revenue guidance implies a year-over-year decline as we lap an incredibly strong June quarter last year where revenue grew 33%, due in part to accelerated iPhone upgrade purchases. This tough compare is compounded by the continued weak macro environment this year and the strong U.S. dollar, which affects our revenue growth in international markets. Embedded in this guidance is a planned channel inventory reduction worth over $2 billion, as we have elected to be prudent about our channel inventory position given the current macro environment. The guidance also reflects a range of possible scenarios related to how quickly we can get into supply/demand balance for iPhone SE. Due to these factors, our expected demand is greater than the revenue range implies. Sequentially, our guidance implies a revenue decline of 15% to 19%, which is comparable to the 17% sequential decline that we've averaged from the March to June quarter for the last three years, despite the anticipated channel inventory adjustments I just described. We expect seasonal sequential declines in iPhone and iPad sales and a sequential increase in Mac sales. We also expect iPhone ASPs to decline sequentially as we get farther from the launch of iPhone 6s and iPhone 6s Plus and as iPhone SE enters the mix. We know that our revenue guidance falls short of market estimates for the third quarter.

We believe the difference comes primarily from three areas: first, the $2 billion-plus channel inventory reduction I just mentioned; second, the effect of the channel inventory reduction and the launch of iPhone SE on iPhone ASPs, as well as the current constrained supply of iPhone SE; and third, different estimates for Mac, which we expect to grow sequentially at a rate similar to what we have experienced in the past June quarters. We expect gross margins to be between 37.5% and 38%. We expect continued cost improvements to be more than offset by the sequential loss of leverage from lower revenue and a different mix of products. We expect OpEx to be between $6 billion and $6.1 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $300 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 25.5%. With that, I'd like to open the call to questions.

Treasury: Thank you, Luca. And we ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow-up. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Co.: Hi, thank you so much. My first question was actually just a clarification in terms of putting in context that $2 billion in channel inventory reduction. What was that last year, just to help us make the comparison on a year-over-year basis? And then the bigger question, Tim, was with the smartphone market now reaching a pretty mature growth phase, how does Apple think of itself going forward? Is it as a growth company, or is it a more mature tech company? And if it's still the former, how does that change how you think about M&A, especially given the position you're in with your balance sheet strategically?

President: Simona, let me give you the data points on the sell-through, and then I'll let Tim answer the strategic question. We had a channel inventory reduction that was worth a bit less than $800 million a year ago.

Director: Simona, hi, it's Tim. In terms of do I think the smartphone market is mature, I think that the market, as you know, is currently not growing. However, my view of that is that's an overhang of the macroeconomic environment in many different places in the world. And we're very optimistic that this too shall pass and that the market and particularly us will grow again. The reason that we're optimistic is we look at the three places that iPhone sales come from. And from an upgrade point of view as I mentioned in my comments, we compare favorably, slightly better than the upgrade cycle that we saw on the iPhone 5s. We're lower than the iPhone 6, but I think all of us know that that was an extraordinary cycle that accelerated upgrades from 2016 into 2015. And so that comparable will be tough for this year, but that's a transitory thing. As we look at switchers, we're extremely excited that for the first half we set a record from switchers from other platforms, the largest we've ever seen in any six-month period before, so we've got traction there. And then on emerging markets, if you take a look at India, we grew by 56%, and we're placing increasing emphasis in these areas, where it's clear there will be disproportionate growth versus the more developed areas. The next thing is with the iPhone SE, we have seen our ability to attract even more customers into the platform with an incredible product that is at a new price point for us with the latest technology, and so we're optimistic about attracting even more customers with that. We also look at our pipeline, and we're very excited about what's in our pipeline. And so all of those things make me optimistic. Your other question was on M&A. Regardless of the first, we're always looking in the market about things that could complement things that we do today, become features in something we do, or allow us to accelerate entry into a category that we're excited about. And so as I said before, our test is not on the size. We would definitely buy something larger than we've bought thus far. It's more about the strategic fit and whether it's a great technology and great people. And so we continue to look and we stay very active in the

Director: Gene, I think the iPhone SE is attracting two types of customers. One is customers that wanted the latest technology but wanted it in a more compact package, and we clearly see even more people than we thought in that category. And then secondly, it's attracting people who aspire to own an iPhone but couldn't quite stretch to the entry price of the iPhone, and we've established a new entry. And so I think both of these markets are very, very important to us, and we're really excited about where it can take us. I do think that we will be really happy with the new-to-iPhone customers that we see from here because of the early returns we've had. We are currently supply constrained, but we'll be able to work our way out of this at some point. But it's great to see the overwhelming demand for it. I'll let Luca comment on the

President: So on the ASPs, Gene, we mentioned that we're going to be down sequentially. And this is really the combination of two factors when we go from the March quarter to the June quarter. It's the fact that we are having the iPhone SE entering the mix, and that obviously is going to have a downward pressure on ASP. And also this channel inventory reduction that we've talked about, obviously the channel inventory reduction will come from higher-end models, and that is also affecting the sequential trend on ASPs. The question on Services, when we look at our Services business, it's obviously growing very well across the board. The biggest element and the part of the Services business that is growing very well, we mentioned 35%, is the App Store. It's interesting for us that our Music business, which had been declining for a number of quarters, now that we have both a download model and a streaming model, we have now hit an inflection point. And we really believe that this will be the bottom and we can start growing from there over time. We have many other Services businesses that are doing very well. We have an iCloud business that is growing very quickly, faster than the App Store from a much lower base, but I think it's important for us as we continue to develop these businesses. Tim has talked about Apple Pay. It doesn't provide a meaningful financial contribution at this point, but as we look at the amount of transactions that are going through Apple Pay right now and we think ahead for the long term, that could be an interesting business for us as well. From a profitability standpoint, we had mentioned last time that when you look at it on a gross basis, so in terms of purchase value of these services, the profitability of the business is similar to company average. Of course, when you net out the amount that is paid to developers and you look at it in terms of what is reported in our P&L, obviously that business has a profitability that is higher than company average. We don't get into the specifics of specific products or services, but it's very clear it's significantly higher than company average.

C: Yes, thank you. First for Luca, this is the worst gross margin guide in a year and a half or so. And over the last couple of quarters, you've talked about a number of tailwinds, including component cost, the lower accounting deferrals that went into effect in September. You just mentioned the Services margins are above corporate average. So the question is, are some of those tailwinds winding down, or is the significant guide down in gross margins for the June quarter entirely related to volume and the iPhone 5 SE? And then I have a follow-up for

President: Katy, clearly the commodity environment remains quite favorable, and we continue to expect cost improvements. The other dynamics that you've mentioned are still there. Obviously, what is different and particularly as we look at it on a sequential basis coming out of the March quarter, we will have lots of leverage, and that obviously is going to have a negative impact on margins. And the other factor that's important to keep in mind is this different mix of products. And particularly when you look at iPhone, what I was mentioning to Gene earlier, I think we've got a couple of things that are affecting not only ASPs, but obviously they also affect margins. And it's the fact that we had a channel inventory reduction at the top end of the range, and we've got the introduction of the iPhone SE at the entry level of the range. And so when you take into account those factors, those are the big elements that drive our guidance range right now.

C: Okay, thank you, and then a question for Tim. I appreciate the optimism around longer-term iPhone unit growth, but with developed market penetration in the – anywhere from 60% to 80%, the growth is going to have to come from new markets. You've talked about India. Can you just spend a little bit more time on that market? What are some of the hurdles you have to overcome for that to be a larger part of the business? When should we expect Apple to have more distribution and specifically your own stores in that country?

Director: Katy, in the short term, let me just make a couple of comments on the developed markets just to make sure this is clear. If you look at our installed base of iPhone today versus two years ago, it's increased by 80%. And so when you think about upgrade cycles, upgrade cycles would have varying rates on it. As I talked about it in the comments, the iPhone 6s upgrade rate is slightly higher than the iPhone 5s but lower than the iPhone 6. But the other multiplier in that equation is obviously the size of the installed base. And so the nut of the idea is that I think there's still really, really good business in the developed markets, so I wouldn't want to write those off. And it's our jobs to come up with great products that people desire, and also to continue to attract over Android switchers. With our worldwide share, there's still quite a bit of room in the developed markets as well. And from an India point of view, if you look at India, and each country has a different story a bit, but the things that have held not only us back perhaps but some others as well is that the LTE rollout with India just really began this year, and so we'll begin to see some really good networks coming on in India. That will unleash the power and capability of the iPhone in a way that an older network, a 2.5G or even some 3G networks, would not do. And so the infrastructure is one key. The second one is building the channel out. Unlike the U.S., as an example, where the carriers in the U.S. sell the vast majority of phones that are sold in the United States, in India the carriers in general sell virtually no phones. And so it's out in retail, and retail is many, many different small shops. And so we've been in the process – it's not something that we just started in the last few weeks. We've been working in India now for a couple of years or more, but we've been working with great energy over the last 18 months or so, and I'm encouraged by the results that we're beginning to see there, and believe there's a lot, lot more there. It is already the third largest smartphone market in the world. But because the smartphones that are working there are low end, primarily because of the network and the economics, the market potential has not been as great there. But I view India as where China was maybe seven to ten years ago from that point of view, and I think there's a really great opportunity there.

C: Yes, thank you. I have one and then a follow-up as well. My sense is that you talked about adjusting for the changes in channel inventory, that you're guiding for relatively normal sequential growth. And I think if you do the math, it's probably the same or perhaps a touch worse in terms of iPhone unit growth sequentially relative to normal seasonality between fiscal Q2 and Q3. I guess the question is, given that you should be entering new markets and you should see pronounced elasticity from the iPhone SE device, why wouldn't we be seeing something that was dramatically above normal seasonal in terms of iPhone revenues and units for this quarter? Maybe you could push back on me, but I can't help thinking that when Apple introduced the iPad mini in a similar move to move down-market, there was great growth for one quarter, and the iPad never grew again, and margins and ASPs went down. And it looks like you're introducing the SE, and at least on a sequential basis, you're not calling for any uplift even adjusting for channel inventory. And ASPs I presume will go down and certainly it's impacting gross margins, as you've guided to. So could you respond to, A), why you're not seeing the elasticity? And, B), is the analogy with the iPad mini completely misplaced?

Director: Toni, it's Tim. Let me see if I can address your question. The channel inventory reduction that Luca referred to, the vast, vast majority of that is in iPhone, and so that would affect the unit compare that you may be thinking about. The iPhone SE, we are thrilled with the response that we've seen on it. It is clear that there is a demand there even much beyond what we thought. And so that is really why we have the constraint that we have. And so do I think it will be like the iPad mini? No, I don't think so. I don't see that. I think that the tablet market in general, one of the challenges with the tablet market is that the replacement cycle is materially different than in the smartphone market. And so as you probably know, we haven't had an issue in customer satisfaction on the iPad. It's incredibly high. And we haven't had an issue with usage of the iPad. The usage is incredibly high. But the consumer behavior there is you tend to hold on for a very long period of time before an upgrade. We continue to be very optimistic on the iPad business. And as I had said in my remarks, we believe we're going to have the best compare for iPad revenue this quarter that we have had in quite some time. And so we'll report back in July on that one. But I think iPhone has a particularly different kind of cycle to it than the tablet market.

C: Okay. And if I can follow up, Tim, you alluded to replacement cycles and differences between the iPad and the iPhone. My sense was when you were going through the iPhone 6 cycle was that you had commented that the upgrade cycle was not materially different. I think your characterization was that it accelerated a bit in the U.S. but international had grown to be a bigger part of your business, and replacement cycles there were typically a little bit longer. And so I'm wondering. If there was only a modest difference between the iPhone 5s and the iPhone 6, how big a difference are we really seeing in terms of replacement cycles across the last three generations? And maybe you can help us. If the replacement cycle was flat this year relative to what you saw last year, how different would your results have been this quarter and the first half?

C: Okay. And then going back to the upgrades of the installed base, you clearly mentioned that you've pulled forward some demand, which makes sense. But there does seem to be a lengthening of the upgrade cycle, particularly in the U.S. AT&T and Verizon have talked about that. Investors I think perceive that maybe the marginal improvements on the phone might be less currently and could be less going forward. At the same time, I think you just announced that you can get the upgrade program online, which I guess potentially could shorten it. Do you believe that upgrade cycles are currently lengthening and can continue to do so?

Director: What we've seen is that it depends on what you compare it to. If you compare to the iPhone 5s, what we're seeing is the upgrade rate today is slightly higher or that there are more people upgrading, if you will, in a similar time period in terms of rate than the iPhone 5s. But if you compare to iPhone 6, you would clearly arrive at the opposite conclusion. And so I think it depends on people's reference points. And we thought it very important in this call to be very clear and transparent about what we are seeing. And so I think in retrospect, you can look at it and say, well maybe the appropriate measure is more to the iPhone 5s, and I think everybody intuitively thought that the upgrades were accelerated with the iPhone 6. In retrospect, when you look at the periods, they clearly were.

C: Thanks, guys, for fitting me in. I wanted to start with a more general question. I guess. Tim, this one is aimed at you. As you think about where you thought things were going to head last quarter when you reported to us and how it's changed this quarter, obviously this kind of a disappointing demand environment. Can you just help us understand what maybe the top two or three things are that have changed, so as we walk away from this we understand what the differences are and what the direction of change is? And

Director: I think, Rod, you're probably indirectly asking about our trough comment, if you will, from last quarter. And when we made that, we did not contemplate or comprehend that we were going to make a $2 billion-plus reduction in channel inventory during this quarter. And so if you factor that in and look at true customer demand, which is the way that we look at it internally, I think you'll find a much more reasonable comparison.

C: Okay, great. Thank you. And then for my follow-up, I wanted to ask you about the tax situation a little bit. Treasury obviously has made some rule changes, and I wonder maybe if, Luca, you could comment on what the impact to Apple from those is, if anything; and, Tim, maybe more broadly, how you guys see the tax situation for Apple looking forward?

Director: The only thing I would add, Rod, is I think there are a growing number of people in both parties that would like to see comprehensive reform, and so I'm optimistic that it will occur. It's just a matter of when. And that's difficult to say, but I think most people do recognize that it's in the

Inc.: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. Today we're pleased to report third quarter results that reflect stronger customer demand and business performance than we anticipated just 90 days ago and include several encouraging signs. Revenue of $42.4 billion was near the high end of our guidance range and gross margin of 38% was at the top of our guidance range. We achieved these results while reducing channel inventory by about $3.6 billion, significantly more than the $2 billion inventory reduction we had expected. So our sell-through was markedly greater than our sell-in. iPhone accounted for the vast majority of the channel inventory reduction. iPhone unit sell-through was down just 8% year on year, an even greater improvement over the March quarter than we predicted, and we expect the September quarter sell-through comparison to improve further. We feel good about our channel inventory levels and believe they position us well for the months ahead. We had a very successful global launch of iPhone SE, and demand outstripped supply throughout the quarter. We brought on additional capacity and were able to achieve supply/demand balance as we entered the September quarter. At its launch, we said that the addition of the iPhone SE to the iPhone lineup placed us in a better position to meet the needs of customers who love a four-inch phone and to attract even more customers into our ecosystem. In both cases, that strategy is working. Our initial sales data tells us that the iPhone SE is popular in both developed and emerging markets, and the percentage of iPhone SE sales going to customers who are new to iPhone is greater than we've seen in the first weeks of availability for other iPhones launched in the last several years. Overall, we added millions of first-time smartphone buyers in the June quarter, and switchers accounted for the highest percentage of quarterly iPhone sales we've ever measured. In absolute terms, our year-to-date iPhone sales to switchers are the greatest we've seen in any nine-month period, and our active installed base of iPhones is up strong double-digits year over year. We saw tremendous performance from our Services businesses, which grew 19% to a June quarter record of $6 billion. The growth was broad-based, with App Store revenue up 37% to a new all-time high, in addition to strong increases in Music, iCloud, and AppleCare. In the last 12 months, our Services revenue is up almost $4 billion year on year to $23.1 billion, and we expect it to be the size of a Fortune 100 company next year. Most of our terrific Services performance during the quarter was fueled by our active installed base of devices, with installed base-related purchases of $10.3 billion accelerating to 29% growth year on year. We had our best iPad compare in 10 quarters, with revenue growing 7% thanks to the rollout of the 9.7-inch iPad Pro. We're proud to have the most exciting lineup of tablets and accessories in the world and exceptionally high customer satisfaction and engagement. Our surveys also show that about half of iPad Pro purchases are buying them for work. iPad Pro is the ultimate upgrade for existing iPad users and the ultimate replacement device for customers switching from PC notebooks. Apple Watch continues to be the best-selling smartwatch in the world. And just this month, J.D. Power ranked it highest in customer satisfaction among all smartwatches. With watchOS 3 coming this fall, customers will be able to update their Apple Watches with an enhanced user interface, significantly improved performance and all-new fitness and health capabilities, including activity sharing. We're just getting started with the Apple Watch, and we look forward to even more exciting announcements in this space. On a personal note, during the past quarter I visited China and India, and I am very encouraged about our growth prospects in those countries. We remain very optimistic about the long-term opportunities in Greater China and we continue to invest there. We opened our 41st Greater China retail store during the quarter, and we also made a $1 billion investment in Didi Chuxing. Switchers and first-time smartphone buyers represented the lion's share of our iPhone sales in the quarter, and our installed base of iPhones in China has grown by 34% over the last year alone. According to China Mobile, there are more iPhones on their network than any other brand, with iPhone users ranking first in terms of customer loyalty, data usage and ARPU. By far, the largest portion of our global channel inventory reduction was in Greater China, so our underlying business there is stronger than our results imply. We face some challenges in Greater China, as the economic environment has slowed down since the beginning of the year. This is reflected in consumer confidence and retail spending, and the Chinese yuan has depreciated by 7% relative to the U.S. dollar since August of last year. Hong Kong's tourism and retail businesses also continue to be significantly impacted by the stronger Hong Kong dollar relative to other Asian currencies. Combining this backdrop with the tough comparison to last year, when revenue grew 112%, and the channel inventory reduction this year, we're reporting a decline in revenue in the June quarter. But to keep things in perspective, when we look back on our accomplishments in this segment over the last couple of years, they are truly remarkable. In the first three quarters of this fiscal year, our total revenue from Greater China was almost $40 billion, up 55% from the same timeframe just two years ago, while iPhone units were up 47%. India is now one of our fastest growing markets. In the first three quarters of this fiscal year, our iPhone sales in India were up 51% year on year. We just announced a first of its kind design and development accelerator to support Indian developers creating innovative applications for iOS, and we opened a new office in Hyderabad to accelerate maps development. We're looking forward to opening retail stores in India down the road, and we see huge potential for that vibrant country. As we look forward to the fall, we are thrilled by customers' response to the software and services we previewed at our Worldwide Developers Conference last month. This was our biggest WWDC ever. And for the first time, we have four innovative Apple platforms for our developers' apps, iOS, macOS, watchOS, and tvOS. In fact, iOS 10 will be the biggest release ever for iOS. The momentum of all four platforms shows the strong relationship Apple enjoys with customers throughout their day and wherever they go, whether it's at home, in their car, at work, or everywhere in between. The Apple ecosystem is thriving and growing, and our new OS releases this fall will take these great experiences to a new level. Customers can look forward to more expressive ways to communicate with messages now with its own App Store, allowing users to create and share content, make payments, add stickers and more, all without leaving messages, which is now one of the largest messaging services in the world. Customers can also look forward to a broader and more intelligent role for Siri, which will work with your favorite apps from the App Store, so you can ask Siri to book a ride with your favorite ride sharing app or send money to someone with Square. There are also beautifully redesigned apps for music, maps and news, significant enhancements to HomeKit, CarPlay, and the Health app, building on our strategy to give users a seamless experience in all aspects of their lives. There's also a major update with macOS Sierra, with new features like Siri and Apple Pay that make the Mac smarter and more helpful than ever, and even stronger continuity features across all the Apple devices. These experiences become more powerful and intuitive as we continue our long history of enriching our products through advanced artificial intelligence. We have focused our AI efforts on the features that best enhance the customer experience. For example, machine learning enables Siri to understand words as well as the intent behind them. That means Siri does a better job understanding and even predicting what you want, then delivering the right responses to requests. To make Siri an even smarter assistant, we're opening the service to developers, and this fall Siri will be available across our entire product line. We're also using machine learning in many other ways across our products and services, including recommending songs, apps, and news. Machine learning is improving facial and image recognition in photos, predicting word choice while typing in messages and mail, and providing context awareness in maps for better directions. Deep learning within our products even enables them to recognize usage patterns and improve their own battery life. And most importantly, we deliver these intelligent services while protecting users' privacy. Most of the AI processing takes place on the device rather than being sent to the cloud. And starting this fall, we'll be using sophisticated technology called differential privacy, enhancing our ability to deliver the kinds of services we dream of and customers love without compromising on the individual privacy our customers have come to expect from us. This fall we'll also bring Apple Pay to Safari so users can easily make secure and private purchases when shopping on participating websites. Tens of millions of users around the world are enjoying Apple Pay today at stores and in app, with estimated monthly active users up more than 450% year on year last month. Leading financial partners tell us that three out of four contactless payments in the U.S. are made with Apple Pay. This is amazing. There are more than 11 million contactless-ready locations in the countries where Apple Pay is available today, including 3 million locations now accepting Apple Pay in the United States. With the launch of France, Switzerland, and Hong Kong this month, Apple Pay is now live in nine markets, including six of our top 10. Adoption outside the U.S. has been explosive, with over half of transaction volume now coming from non-U.S. markets. With our latest OS releases, the unparalleled continuity across Apple devices will become even more powerful. For example, macOS Sierra will sense other devices and use secure protocols to communicate. With an authenticated Apple Watch, I can auto-unlock my Mac when I open it without typing a password. With Universal Clipboard, I can copy and paste text, images, and even video between my iOS devices and my Mac. And I can automatically access the files on my Mac desktop and documents folder from another Mac, iOS device, or even a PC. Innovations like these are the kinds of things that only Apple can do. We have an incredible lineup of products in our pipeline, and I'm very bullish about our long-term opportunity. Now I'd like to hand it over to Luca to share more details with you on the

Inc.: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. Revenue for the June quarter was $42.4 billion, near the high end of our guidance range, compared to $49.6 billion in the year-ago quarter. Customer demand for our products and services was stronger than we had anticipated at the beginning of the quarter. As Tim mentioned, we reduced overall channel inventories by roughly $3.6 billion. On a geographic basis, our revenue grew strongly in Japan to a new June quarter record, and we experienced healthy growth in a number of other important markets, including Russia, Brazil, Turkey, India, and Canada. Gross margin was 38%, at the top of our guidance range. Operating margin was 23.9% of revenue, and net income was $7.8 billion. Diluted earnings per share were $1.42, and cash flow from operations was strong at $10.6 billion. For details by product, I will start with the iPhone. We sold 40.4 million iPhones in the quarter. We also reduced channel inventory by over 4 million units compared to about 0.5 million units a year ago, so sell-through was down by 8%. We exited the quarter near the low end of our five-week to seven-week target range for channel inventory. The rollout of our new entry-level iPhone SE concurrent with the channel reduction of more than 4 million higher-end iPhones resulted in a lower than usual iPhone ASP of $595. Therefore, we expect ASPs to improve this quarter. We experienced strong iPhone growth in many markets, with sales in Russia more than doubling year over year, and double-digit growth in many other key countries, including Japan, Turkey, Brazil, India, Canada, and Sweden. iPhone continues to show great momentum in business markets. A recent survey by 451 Research found that among U.S. corporate buyers planning to purchase smartphones in the September quarter, 75% plan to purchase iPhones. This is the highest corporate purchase intent ever measured by the survey for the September quarter. Turning to Services, we generated $6 billion in revenue, an increase of 19% over the June quarter last year. We set a new record for customers transacting on our iTunes Stores. And among our customers who purchase apps and content, the average amount spent per customer was the highest that we've ever measured. The App Store's growth rate has now accelerated for four consecutive quarters, reaching 37% in Q3. The App Store is overwhelmingly the preferred destination for both customers and developers. According to App Annie, we generated 100% more global revenue than Google Play in the June quarter, widening our lead from the March quarter. Because of this continued growth, for the first nine months of our fiscal year, Services increased from 8% of our total revenue a year ago to 11% this year, and it represents an even higher percentage of our profitability. Next I'd like to talk about the Mac. We sold 4.3 million Macs compared to 4.8 million last year. It was a challenging quarter for personal computer sales across the industry, with IDC estimating a 4% global contraction. In addition to the overall market slowdown, we faced a very difficult compare to the year-ago quarter, when we introduced a new MacBook Pro and a new iMac. Despite these challenges, Mac continues to gain a high percentage of new customers, and our Mac installed base has grown to a new all-time high at the end of the June quarter. We ended the quarter below our four-week to five-week target range for Mac channel inventory. Now turning to iPad, revenue grew 7%. iPad ASP was $490 compared to $415 in the year-ago quarter, with the increase driven by iPad Pro, and we sold 10 million iPads compared to 10.9 million in the year-ago quarter. We also reduced channel inventory by about 500,000 units and exited the quarter within our five-week to seven-week target range. In the segments of the tablet market where we compete, we continue to be highly successful both in terms of market share and customer metrics. Recent data from NPD indicates that iPad gained share in the overall U.S. tablet market in the June quarter and has 84% share of tablets priced above $200. And in May, 451 Research measured a 96% consumer satisfaction rate for iPad mini and a 95% rate for iPad Air. Among U.S. consumers planning to purchase a tablet within the next six months, 63% plan to purchase an iPad, almost four times the purchase intention rate of the next highest brand measured, with iPad Pro the top choice for planned purchases. Corporate buyers report a 94% satisfaction rate for iPad and a purchase intent of 71% for the September quarter. One recent example of iPad business adoption is Sberbank, Russia's largest bank, which is adding 22,000 iPads to more than 10,000 purchased last year to deploy corporate mobility solutions across the organization and enable its consultants to serve customers in a more engaging and more efficient way. More broadly, we're making great progress with our enterprise initiatives and we see strong growth opportunities ahead of us. In May, we announced a global strategic partnership with SAP to reimagine business processes with native iOS apps. SAP is the world's largest enterprise software provider, with more than 130 million potential users among its 300,000 global customers. In fact, it's estimated that 76% of global business transactions touch an SAP system. Our partnership will deliver an SDK to fast-track iOS projects for SAP environments, an iOS academy to enable the 2.5 million SAP developers around the world to build great native iOS apps, and a portfolio of industry-specific apps to accelerate mobile transformation in the enterprise. Last month, we announced the first three solutions from our Cisco partnership, two that will dramatically improve the network performance of iOS traffic running on Cisco networks, and one that will bring the desk phone to the 21st century by integrating iPhone Wi-Fi calling into Cisco Spark. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $231.5 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential decrease of $1.4 billion. $214.8 billion of this cash, or 93% of the total, was outside the United States. We issued a total $2.4 billion of debt in Taiwan and in Australia, while retiring $2.5 billion in U.S. debt, leaving us with $72 billion in term debt at the end of the quarter, essentially unchanged from last quarter. We returned a total of over $13 billion to investors during the June quarter as follows. We paid $3.2 billion in dividends and equivalent. We spent $4 billion on repurchases of 41.2 million Apple shares through open-market transactions. And we launched a new $6 billion ASR, resulting in initial delivery and retirement of 48.2 million shares. We also completed our sixth accelerated share repurchase program, retiring an additional 8.7 million shares. We've now completed almost $177 billion of our current $250 billion capital return program, including $127 billion in share repurchases. During the quarter, we also spent $1 billion on a minority investment in Didi Chuxing in China, completed three acquisitions and incurred $4.2 billion in capital expenditures. As we move ahead into the September quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $45.5 billion and $47.5 billion. We expect gross margin to be between 37.5% and 38%. We expect OpEx to be between $6.050 billion and $6.150 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $350 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 25.5%. Also today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.57 per share of common stock, payable on August 11, 2016 to shareholders of record as of August 8, 2016.

Inc.: Thank you, Luca. And we ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow-up. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Inc.: We think to have a great platform you have to have a really healthy ecosystem. And so we're really proud of the developer community and the fact that developers are earning a lot more money in writing for iOS than other apps. We think that the best experience for users include apps, and so we want to do everything that we can do to continue building that. We now have over 2 million apps in the App Store and are more focused these days on discovery and other things to bring more great apps to the service because there are so many out there. And so that's what we're doing. The TV, and you didn't mention CarPlay, but these are trying to provide our users a seamless experience across all the different things that they do in their lives. And so that's the rationale for CarPlay. It's the rationale for why we're putting a huge investment in the home, making – really bringing home automation to life for people in a very simple and elegant way. It's the reason for Apple TV and what we're doing in the living room. And so all these things, all these things together are all about the user experience and making people's daily lives better.

C: Thank you. Luca, as it relates to gross margin, the guidance today is very similar to what you've provided over the last five years in terms of gross margin guidance in September versus June. And the variances that you walked through in response to Shannon's questions are very similar to the dynamics that you see in any September quarter. But there's an added factor this time around, which is you don't have the 4 million units of high-ASP, high-margin inventory drain in September like you did in the June quarter. So I guess I'd just push back and ask why gross margin guidance wouldn't be even better? Is it the more balanced NAND environment that Tim spoke to, or is there something else impacting the guidance?

Inc.: Katy, I've talked about these elements at a broad level. Of course, there are degrees of positive impact. We for example on the mix front, every cycle is slightly different on our product mix, and so that clearly has an impact on gross margins. And the other thing that we need to keep in mind as we step back for a second and now we've gone through a couple of cycles where the U.S. dollar has strengthened. And as you know, we work with our hedging program where we get protection from FX fluctuations in the short term. When these hedges roll off over time, we end up replacing them with new hedging contracts at spot rates. And so versus September of 2014, for example, the U.S. dollar has now strengthened on average against international currencies by about 15%. And I think we need to accept that now we're living in this stronger U.S. dollar environment. We've taken a lot of actions on the cost side, on the pricing side, and obviously with hedges. But we need to deal with this situation, and that's where we are right now. We feel that 37.5% to 38% given the new FX environment I think says a lot about all the work that we've done on the cost side to get there. Just to give you a sense, on a year-over-year basis, when I look at foreign exchange, that has an impact of almost 300 basis points on our margins.

Inc.: I don't want to talk about phones that aren't announced. And so that aside, what we have seen in the past tense or current tense on the upgrade rate is that the iPhone upgrade rate for the iPhone 6S is very similar to the iPhone 5S. And I guess in retrospect, maybe that was a predictable thing, although we didn't predict it in the beginning. It took us a little time to realize that. The iPhone 6 was significantly higher than that, and so it likely accelerated upgrades that would have been in the current year ahead of those. And so what the future holds, we'll see. But I'm very optimistic about the future because I see so many signs that are positive. I see an installed base that has gotten incredibly large. I see a switcher rate that is the highest ever. I see the smartphone itself, led by iPhone, becoming even more instrumental and important to people's lives. It's becoming essential. And all of the things that are coming both in the fall, the things that we've announced that you can see with iOS 10, hopefully you're running by now with the beta, those and other things make it even more instrumental. And AI even makes it even more and more. As the phone becomes more and more your assistant, it's one of those that you're not going to leave without it. And so I see all of those things as vectors that are incredibly positive. I also really like what I've seen with the iPhone SE and the fact that it's opening the door to customers that we weren't reaching before and likely convincing some people to upgrade that wanted a smaller form factor but wanted to stay with iPhone, and so they were waiting for the iPhone SE. And so I see lots of positive things, and so that's how

Research: Yes, thank you. You commented about the significant inventory drawdown in the quarter, $3.6 billion on the revenue side. So sell-through was $46 billion effectively, over 4 million iPhones, suggesting that sell-through iPhone sales were 45 million. When I look to your guidance for Q4, I actually have the opposite question of a previous question, which is in light of the true sell-through rate, which seems to reflect better than normal seasonality in Q3, likely some contribution and elasticity from the SE, when I look at Q4, it looks like you're guiding for iPhone unit on a sell-through basis to be flat or potentially down and for total company revenues to be only fractionally up and below the seasonality we see in Q4. So I guess my question is, are you expecting any drawdowns in channel inventory in fiscal Q4? Are my inferences around sell-through rate incorrect? Or given the business momentum that you spoke about in response to an earlier question and the hopefulness that you expressed in your prepared remarks, Tim, I'm actually surprised that the guidance isn't a bit stronger on the top line.

Inc.: Toni, let me take it. Starting with your comments on the June quarter, I just want to point out that when we talk about a $3.6 billion channel inventory reduction, that is not entirely related to iPhone. iPhone is the vast majority of that, but we did reduce channel inventory on all other products as well. So that probably leads you to different conclusions to the math that you have just expressed. On the September quarter, when I look at the sequential increase for iPhone units that we are expecting, I would say that it is, even with the sell-through adjustments that you've talked about, it's still pretty much in line with what we've seen in the past. As you know, we do not provide guidance for channel inventory. But I would say, in general, I think it's important to keep in mind that if we look around the world, we do see a lot of positive signs, but we also know that the macroeconomic environment is slowing down in a number of places around the world. And that needs to be taken into account in our guidance.

Research: Okay. Luca, I did understand the $3.6 billion, but you said over 4 million iPhones were drawn down. I added that to the 40.4 million, so that would suggest close to 45 million on a sell-through basis. So that was the basis for my observation. I was wondering if I could direct one at Tim. You talked about the upgrade cycle and how it elongated relative to the iPhone 6 and that it's similar to what you saw with the iPhone 5S. And my belief is that one of the bigger longer-term concerns for Apple is that the replacement cycle could just structurally elongate over time, particularly as your installed base of customers becomes less affluent and more international. So I guess my question is, you have a mechanism, which is the Apple Upgrade Program, which takes replacement cycle out of the equation and puts people on buying the phone as a service. And so I'd welcome any comments on how that program is doing. And then just more broadly, is Apple thinking about ways to sell not only the iPhone, but more of its products on a monthly type subscription basis, perhaps in a more bundled fashion so that you can add more predictability to what is now largely a transactional revenue model?

Inc.: Yes, thank you. Good afternoon. I just want to follow up, Tim, if I could, related to the R&D pace of growth, clearly a lot of momentum there over the last couple years. But we're just trying to figure out how much of that is dedicated to existing products and services versus what's next? Can you give us a sense in terms of when investors should think about the ROI coming back to them from the R&D perspective? And a corollary to that, is it really restricted just to products and services currently, or can we see more of a cloud services apparatus evolve over time where you do more and more in the enterprise just given the core trips with SAP and Cisco and IBM? And then my follow-up for Luca is around ASPs for the iPhone. We keep getting a lot of questions around iPhone SE in terms of how cannibalistic could it be to the core iPhone franchise. Are you seeing any moderation in terms of the ASP pressures here?

Inc.: On R&D growth, we do continue to invest significantly in R&D. The growth rates are still large on a year-over-year basis, and Luca can share the exact ones. But I think the recent quarter was in the mid-20% for R&D. The balance of the company we're managing more flattish from a year-over-year point of view. The products that are in R&D, there is quite a bit of investment in there for products and services that are not currently shipping or derivations of what is currently shipping. And so I don't want to talk about the exact split of it. But you can look at the growth rate and conclude that there's a lot of stuff that we're doing beyond the current products.

Inc.: Mark, on the ASP question, I talked about the $595 in Q3. It's down $65 on a year-over-year basis. Keep in mind, about $20 of that $65 is foreign exchange. So during the quarter, we had this combination of starting with no iPhone SE units in channel inventory, so we had to do an at least a partial channel fill that obviously had an impact on ASPs. And then the other element was the fact that we've reduced more than 4 million units of channel inventory on the high end. So the combination of these two things obviously had an impact on ASPs. But I think as I said or Tim said during the prepared remarks, we do expect iPhone ASP to improve sequentially as we move into the September quarter because these two factors that I just mentioned are not going to repeat. On cannibalization, of course we've got limited experience because the phone has been in the market just for a few weeks. But when we look at our survey data on iPhone SE, as Tim was saying, we believe that the iPhone SE is doing exactly what it was intended, which is we are seeing a higher rate of new to iPhone customers, which is obviously very important to us because we bring new people into the iOS ecosystem. And we see a higher rate of previous iPhone owners that really prefer the four-inch form factor. We have not seen clear evidence of cannibalization from iPhone 6S or iPhone 6S Plus. Of course, there's always going to be some level of cannibalization. But really to us what is much more relevant is the much bigger opportunity to bring more people into the i

Broker): Thanks, just a couple questions for me. Luca, I just want to clarify that last point on ASPs on iPhone because last quarter it seemed that you were quite clear that that was a negative driver to the gross margin of the company. So I understand there are other drivers going into the September quarter. But just to be clear, the phone units you didn't sell through that were depleted in channel inventory, those are relatively high gross margin as well. That's the clarification. And then for Tim, on the Services side, as Apple has spoken more and more loudly I guess in the last three or four quarters, I just think about some of the comments you've made about the TV market and how it's been stuck I think in the 1960s and the 1970s and the experience hasn't changed. I understand you've got the Apple TV box out. But in terms of driving actual video-on-demand services, is that something that Apple wants to do themselves? Do you want a partner? Could you even build content? How do you think about that as an actual business opportunity as opposed to here's an Apple box and we sell some units, but it's not that meaningful to the overall company in terms of size? I'm just curious given the installed base and users you have.

Inc.: Kulbinder, on your question on iPhone ASP, I'm not sure if I understood it correctly. But clearly the iPhone SE has a downward impact on iPhone ASP, of course, because it comes at the low end of the range. From a gross margin perspective, it is slightly dilutive to company margins, but the impact is not particularly large.

Inc.: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us. We're in the middle of a very busy season for Apple, and on Thursday of this week, we're holding another event here on the Apple campus. All of us are excited and we think our customers are going to love these latest innovations. Our results for the September quarter were very strong. We generated $46.9 billion in revenue in the quarter, toward the high end of our guidance range. Gross margin was 38%, at the very top of our range. We sold 45.5 million iPhones, reflecting continued improvement in year-over-year performance compared to the last two quarters, as we forecasted in January. iPhone sales were up year-over-year in 33 of our top 40 markets. As you know, iPhone customers are the most satisfied and loyal customers in the world, and fiscal 2016 saw more customers switch from Android to iPhone than ever before. This is due to the superior customer experience we deliver with our products, and it's something no other company can match. We had a record-setting quarter for Services, with revenue growth accelerating to 24%, reaching $6.3 billion. App Store revenue continued to skyrocket, while Music revenue grew by 22% thanks to the growing popularity of Apple Music. In fact, J.D. Power recently announced that Apple Music enjoys the highest customer satisfaction rating in the streaming music market. Earlier this month I visited Japan, where Apple Pay went live yesterday. Japanese customers are already in the habit of making contactless payments where they commute, dine and shop, so we expect a strong response and rapid adoption of Apple Pay. Around the world, we're seeing very strong growth in transaction volume through Apple Pay, which also launched in Russia and New Zealand this month and is coming to Spain in the next few months. Apple Pay transactions were up nearly 500% year-on-year for the September quarter. In fact, we completed more transactions in the month of September than we did across all of fiscal 2015. And with Apple Pay support now built into Safari, hundreds of thousands of websites are bringing Apple Pay to their customers. Our major partners tell us that Apple Pay shows the highest conversion rate of any digital wallet. We remain very confident about the future of our Services business given the unmatched level of engagement, satisfaction and loyalty of our growing installed base. We have almost doubled the size of our Services revenue in the last four years, and as we've said before, we expect it to be the size of a Fortune 100 company in fiscal 2017. As for our newest products, we're thrilled with the customer response to iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus. These are the best iPhones we've ever made, with breakthrough camera systems, immersive stereo speakers, and the best iPhone performance in battery life ever, thanks to the custom-designed Apple A10 Fusion chip. They feature the brightest, most colorful iPhone displays to date and come in gorgeous new finishes. Demand continues to outstrip supply, but we're working very hard to get them into customers' hands as quickly as possible. We're also off to a great start with Apple Watch Series 2, the next generation of the world's most popular smartwatch, packed with new features including built-in GPS, water resistance, a dramatically brighter display and a powerful dual-core processor. Individuals and businesses alike are recognizing the potential of Apple Watch to help people stay healthy, motivated and connected. One recent example is Aetna, which has announced a new initiative to revolutionize its members' health experience by subsidizing Apple Watch for individual customers and select large employers. In addition, Aetna is also providing Apple Watch to nearly 50,000 of its own employees to encourage them to live a healthier day. We've just rolled out new versions of iOS, macOS and watchOS and customers are loving the many great new features including Siri on the Mac, enhanced health and fitness capabilities for Apple Watch and a delightful new way to experience your photos on iOS with a feature we call memories. We've made massive advances in messages, making them more expressive and fun than ever with powerful animations, invisible ink and handwritten notes. We're seeing great offerings from developers in the all new App Store for Messages, and there has been a marked increase in our monthly active users. One of the great new features of iOS 10 is the Home app, which is making home automation easy to set up and intuitive to use. Customers can easily set up and securely control all their HomeKit accessories, from lights and cameras to the garage doors and air conditioners, all from their favorite iOS devices. We expect over 100 HomeKit-compatible products to be on the market by the end of this year, all reviewed and approved by Apple to help ensure customer security when using them. Our Apple stores are wonderful places to discover and learn about these great products for the connected home. With our latest operating systems, machine learning is making our products and services smarter, more intuitive and even more personal. We've been using these technologies for years to create better user experiences, and we've also been investing heavily both through R&D and acquisitions. Today, machine learning drives improvements in countless features across our products. It enables the proactive features in iOS 10, which offers suggestions on which app you might want to use or which context you might want to include in an email. Our camera and photo software uses advanced face recognition to help you take better pictures and object and scene recognition to make them easier to sort and find. Machine learning makes the fitness features of Apple Watch more accurate and even helps extend battery life across our products. Machine learning continually helps Siri get even smarter in areas such as understanding natural language. We've extended Siri to work in many new ways by opening it to developers and most recently by making Siri available to Mac users in Mac OS Sierra. We're already seeing great momentum in just the first few weeks from developers leveraging the Siri and speech APIs and we're very happy with the engagement it's driving with Siri. Looking ahead, we're seeing some very exciting developments in India. Reliance Jio is rolling out a a first of its kind all-IP network in India with 4G coverage in 18,000 cities and 200,000 villages across the country. They're offering a free year of service to purchasers of new iPhones and we're partnering with them to ensure great iPhone performance on their network. Our iPhone sales in India were up over 50% in fiscal 2016 compared to the prior year, and we believe we're just beginning to scratch the surface of this large and growing market opportunity. We're also very happy with the progress of our enterprise market initiatives, which continue to expand. Just last month, we announced a partnership with Deloitte to help companies quickly and easily transform the way they work by maximizing the power, ease of use, and security of the iOS platform. Deloitte is creating a unique Apple practice with over 5,000 strategic advisors focused on helping businesses transform work in functions across the enterprise. We're also collaborating on the development of Enterprise Next, a new Deloitte consulting service designed to help clients across more than 20 industries take full advantage of the iOS ecosystem and quickly develop custom solutions through rapid prototyping. As we close the books on another incredible year, I'd like to thank our talented employees for their hard work and passion for making the best products in the world, our amazing developer community for their relentless creativity and our wonderful customers, business partners and shareholders for their loyalty and support. Now I'll hand it over to

Inc.: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. Revenue for the September quarter was $46.9 billion, towards the high end of our guidance range. Our revenue grew very strongly in many emerging markets, including Russia, Turkey, the Middle East, Thailand and Vietnam, and we continue to see solid growth in Japan and in Latin America. Gross margin was 38%, at the top of our guidance range, thanks to favorable cost performance. Operating margin was 25.1% of revenue and net income was $9 billion. Diluted earnings per share were $1.67 and cash flow from operations was $16.1 billion, which is a new record for the September quarter. For details by product, I will start with iPhone. We sold 45.5 million iPhones in the quarter, thanks to the very successful launch of iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus and continued strong demand for other iPhones. Including 2.7 million iPhones that were in transit at the end of the quarter, we increased iPhone channel inventory by 2.5 million units, and we exited the quarter well below our five to seven week target range of channel inventory. We experienced strong iPhone growth in many markets around the world, including Canada, Latin America, Western Europe, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East, India and South Asia. iPhone sales in Greater China declined during the quarter, but the initial customer response to iPhone 7 and 7 Plus gives us confidence that our December quarter performance in China will be significantly better on a year-over-year basis than our September quarter results, even as we lap the all-time record period from a year ago. Worldwide demand for iPhone 7 and 7 Plus has significantly outpaced supply, particularly on iPhone 7 Plus, and we're working very hard to get the new iPhones into the hands of our customers as quickly as possible. iPhone ASP increased to $619 in the September quarter, which was above our expectations. That's up from $595 in the June quarter when we launched iPhone SE and we had a significant channel inventory reduction. We expect iPhone ASP to increase markedly on a sequential basis to a level similar to our ASP in the December quarter last year. Customer interest and satisfaction with iPhone remains extremely strong. In the U.S. for instance, the latest survey fielded by 451 Research found that among consumers planning to purchase a smartphone within 90 days, 65% plan to purchase iPhone, with the current iPhone owners reporting a 97% customer satisfaction rating. Among corporate smartphone buyers, the latest survey measured a 95% iPhone customer satisfaction rating and found that of those planning to purchase smartphones in the December quarter, 79% planned to purchase iPhone. Turning to Services, we generated an all-time record $6.3 billion in revenue with an increase of 24% over a year ago. The App Store growth rate has now accelerated for five consecutive quarters, reaching 43% in the September quarter. The App Store remains the preferred destination for both customers and developers. According to App Annie, it generated 100% more global revenue than Google Play in the September quarter. In addition to the great performance from apps, we saw strong double-digit revenue growth in several other service categories and Apple Pay transaction volume has grown dramatically, as Tim mentioned. Next I'd like to talk about the Mac. We sold 4.9 million Macs, facing a difficult year-over-year compare, given the launch of new Macs in the spring of 2015. Despite this, our Mac installed base reached a new all-time high at the end of the September quarter and we'll have some exciting news to share with current and future Mac owners very soon. We ended the quarter below our four to five week target range for Mac channel inventory. Turning to iPad, revenue was flat compared to last year. iPad ASP was $459, $26 higher than a year ago, with increase driven by the new iPad Pro line. We sold 9.3 million iPads, and we reduced channel inventory by about 80,000 units, exiting the quarter below our five to seven-week target range. We continue to be highly successful both in terms of market share and customer metrics in the segments of the tablet market where we compete. Recent data from NPD indicates that iPad gained share in the U.S. tablet market in the September quarter and had 82% share of tablets priced above $200. And in August, 451 Research measured a 96% consumer satisfaction rate for iPad mini, 95% rate for iPad Air, and a 93% rate for iPad Pro. Among U.S. consumers planning to purchase a tablet within the next six months, 73% plan to purchase an iPad, more than eight times the purchase intention rate of the next highest brand measured, with iPad Pro once again the top choice for planned purchases. Corporate buyers reported a 94% satisfaction rate for iPad and a purchase intent of 68% for the December quarter. In the enterprise market, we are seeing some great examples of iPad and Mac deployment. Our Mobility Partner Program continues to grow stronger, with over 120 partners around the world offering tailored solutions to businesses of all sizes. Revel Systems, a leading iPad point-of-sale solution partner, recently announced a global agreement with Shell retail to implement Revel's iPad based POS system services at 34,000 Shell locations worldwide, including support for Apple Pay in countries where Apple Pay is available. IBM has just released new data on the great results of its Mac rollout. With more employees choosing Mac than ever before, there are now more than 90,000 Macs across the organization in addition to 48,000 iPads and 81,000 iPhones. IBM reports that PCs have three times the cost to manage, drive twice the number of support calls and are 5 times more likely to require a follow-up appointment to resolve an issue than Macs. Thanks to much lower support cost and significantly higher residual value, the company is saving as much as $535 per computer when comparing the total cost of Mac ownership to a PC over a full-year lifecycle. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $237.6 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $6.1 billion. $216 billion of this cash or 91% of the total was outside the United States. We issued $7 billion of debt in July, leaving us with $79 billion in term debt at the end of the quarter. We returned over $9 billion to investors during the September quarter as follows. We paid $3.1 billion in dividends and equivalents. We spent $3 billion on repurchases of 28.6 million Apple shares through open market transactions, and we launched a new $3 billion ASR, resulting in initial delivery and retirement of 22.5 million shares. We also completed our seventh accelerated share repurchase program, with adding an additional 12.3 million shares. So total buyback activity during the quarter reduced our share count by 1.5%. We have now completed $186 billion of our current $250 billion capital return program, including $133 billion in share repurchases. During the September quarter, we also completed four acquisitions and incurred $3.6 billion in capital expenditures. Our total CapEx for the year was $12.8 billion. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 26%, slightly higher than the 25.5% we guided to because of a differential graphic mix of earnings relative to our regional expectations. Our tax rate for the full fiscal year was 25.6% As we move ahead into the December quarter, I would like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $76 billion and $78 billion. This represents a return to growth over the all-time revenue record set in the December quarter a year ago. We expect gross margin to be between 38% and 38.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $6.9 billion and $7 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $400 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 26%. Also today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.57 per share of common stock, payable on November 10, 2016, to shareholders of record as of November 7, 2016.

Inc.: And we ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow up. May we have the first question, please?

Inc.: It's hard to say. I believe that on iPhone 7 we will. On iPhone 7 Plus, I'm not sure. I wouldn't say yes at this point, because the underlying demand looks extremely strong on both products but particularly on the iPhone 7 Plus versus our forecast going into the product launch.

C: Thanks. Good afternoon. Luca, can you help us understand what's embedded in revenue guidance for the extra week as well as any rebuilding of channel inventory given all the major products are running below target? Just trying to get at whether you see revenue and in particular iPhone growth year on year on more of a sellout basis when you adjust for those two factors?

Inc.: Yes Katy, sure. Let me say a few things on the 14th week and revenue up for the December quarter. Keep in mind that December quarter a year ago for us was an all-time quarterly revenue record. We think we can grow this year. As Tim said, the interest from customers on iPhone 7 and 7 Plus is very strong. The strength of our Services business, you've seen we've grown 24% in September. We think we can continue to grow very well into the December quarter. You mentioned the 14th week, and the few extra days do help us this quarter. But I think it's important to keep in mind that there are other factors that go and offset these extra few days. As you know, the launch timing of the new iPhone is different this year. We had the first 90 days of sales this year hit Q4. There were only two days last year, so the cadence has moved more towards the Q4 this year versus Q1 last year. As you know, we increased iPhone channel inventory by 3.3 million units in the first quarter of 2016. As Tim said, we are very supply constrained on iPhone 7 Plus this year. We're simply more supply constrained this year than we were a year ago. And then keep in mind that there were a couple of things that affect the compare as well, which is the fact that a year ago, we had an award for a patent infringement of $548 million, which is obviously a one-off item that is not going to repeat this year. And also the foreign exchange environment remains difficult, and we expect FX to be about $650 million headwind on a year-over-year basis into the December quarter. So I hope that gives you a bit of a sense that when you take into account all these factors, we believe that this is a good guidance for the

C: That's great color. Thank you for that. A follow up for Tim. What should we read into the fact that R&D has more than doubled over the past three years while sales growth was sort of a fifth of that? Are R&D investments just less efficient than they were in the company's history, or should we think about that as incremental spend for products that haven't yet come to market?

C: Thank you very much. A couple of questions. The first, Tim, can you talk a bit more about China, just how you're thinking about it, where you're seeing pressure? I know you mentioned that you expect to see a significant rebound during the first quarter, but what are your customers telling you about the demand in China?

Inc.: Yeah, it's a good question, Shannon. So to sort of back up from our results for the quarter, the 90-day clock, and look at the full year of 2016, we were down 17% compared to the fiscal year 2015 which was up 84% from the previous year. So if you look at 2014 to 2016, the revenue grew 52% and the CAGR was 23%, which is really a pretty good result. Also as you probably know, the fiscal year 2016 performance was hurt by the devaluation of the currency which affected it about 3%, so the underlying business performance was 14% down. And so, why was it down? There's lots of reasons, but the largest one in our view is that when you look at what happened in 2015 in China, we had a surge of upgraders that came into the market for the iPhone 6 or iPhone 6 Plus, and the upgrade rate increased relatively more in Greater China than elsewhere around the world. And so when that upgrade rate in fiscal year 2016 returned to a more normal upgrade rate, which would be akin to what we saw with the iPhone 5S as a point, it had further to fall. And so that's the main reason in our view that you see a difference. Now that spun or created another issue for us, because we didn't forecast that accurately. So in Q1 of last year, we put in too much channel inventory and had been resetting the channel inventory over the few quarters that came beyond it or came after it. And so those two issues, which really the main one is really the first one and the second one was a symptom of it, are in our views the main issue. Now looking forward, the response to the iPhone 7 and 7 Plus has been very positive. It's very hard to gauge demand, as you know, when you're selling everything you're making. And so we'll find out more through the quarter, but we're confident enough to give you guys guidance that we're returning to growth this quarter, which obviously feels very good for us. And from a longer-term point of view, out of the 90-day clocks and so forth, we are very bullish on China. We continue to see a middle class that is booming there. There might be some sort of a new normal in the economy, but a new normal there is still a good growth rate. And so with the number of middle class – people growing into the middle class and the LTE adoption rate being still fairly low, around 45%, 50% or so, then I think we continue to have a really good opportunity there, and so we continue to focus significantly in

C: And then can you talk a bit about acquisitions? And I don't mean like the smaller ones that you've done sort of at a normal cadence, but there was clearly a fairly large one announced at least this week in the content world. And especially if you find a way to have repatriation of some of the cash at a low tax rate possibly with the next administration. So I just, if you can give sort of an overall view of how you think about acquisitions that might be a little bit larger than normal.

Inc.: We are open to acquisitions of any size that are of strategic value where we can deliver better products to our customers and innovate more. And so we look at a whole variety of companies, and based on that, we choose whether to move forward or not. But we're definitely open and we definitely look.

C: Yes. Thank you. I have a question and a follow-up, please. I guess a cynic could say Apple is benefiting from an extra week this quarter and is benefiting from Samsung being in complete disarray. And yet from your guidance, it's unclear that iPhone unit growth will be up or certainly not up more than low single-digits implied from your guidance. And I appreciate some of the issues around channel inventory build and the timing of the launch, but if I just stand back from that and say you have terrific new products, your major competitor's laying down, you have an enormous, you have a significant contribution from an extra week, arguably 7% or 8%, and yet the iPhone growth is sort of flattish, what does that really say about how investors should think about iPhone on a sustained basis growing forward? And is it reasonable to think that this is an ongoing growing business for the company?

Inc.: Toni, let me take this one. I think you mentioned a number of the things that are affecting us in the December quarter, and I went through them with Katy just a few minutes ago. You're right, we've got an extra few days. You know very well the launch timing is different. You know that we increased iPhone channel inventory by 3.3 million units a year ago. I mentioned two issues that affect us, the one-timer from a year ago that you obviously need to exclude from the compare and the FX that is the reality of our business right now. But maybe the most important element of this is the fact that we are supply constrained on 7 and 7 Plus. And so when you talk about other competitors, it's not particularly relevant to us right now because we are selling everything that we can produce. And so when we look at all these things in its totality, we think that for the total company of course, we believe that revenue's going to grow. You know that we don't get into specific product from a unit standpoint giving guidance, and so we feel very confident about the trajectory for the company and for i

C: Okay. Tim, if I could ask you one, please. You've talked in the past about television being an area of intense interest. I was wondering if you could reaffirm that statement. Is that still the case? And then additionally, given what's happening with acquisitions, how broadly you think about the role of content. Apple has started creating on a very limited scale some of its own content and whether you think content creation and ownership is important to Apple, or whether Apple ultimately sees its place in the value chain as being more around the ecosystem and distribution.

Inc.: I would confirm that television has intense interest with me and many other people here. In terms of owning content and creating content, we have started with focusing on some original content, as you point out. We've got a few things going there that we've talked about. And I think it's a great opportunity for us both from a creation point of view and an ownership point of view. and so it's is an area that we're focused on.

Inc.: We review the capital return annually, and we've established a cadence now to announce our thinking on that every April. And so we have a robust discussion around the dividend and the buyback. We very much believe that Apple is very undervalued, and so we're investing with confidence in the company that we know really well. And so that thinking has I think proven out over time and I think been very good for our shareholders. And in addition to that, we know that some shareholders really like a dividend and some ongoing income, and so we've provided a amount that we think is a good amount and have a good track record of raising it annually. And so we'll be able to say more on that

Inc.: Thank you, Nancy, and good afternoon everyone, and thanks very much for joining us. I'm very happy to share with you the outstanding results of Apple's December quarter. We generated the highest quarterly revenue in Apple's history along with all-time unit and revenue records for iPhone and Apple Watch, all-time revenue records for Services and Mac, and all-time revenue records for four out of our five geographic segments. The strong performance of our business also produced all-time record earnings per share. Revenue in the quarter was $78.4 billion, which was above the top of our guidance range. iPhone had a tremendous quarter thanks to exceptional demand that beat our own internal expectations. While iPhone 7 is our most popular model, we saw especially strong demand for iPhone 7 Plus, which was a higher portion of the new product mix than we've ever seen with Plus models in the past. Demand for iPhone 7 Plus exceeded supply throughout the quarter, and we came into supply/demand balance in January. iPhone 7 Plus has earned rave reviews for its advanced new features, especially the dual camera system, which produces stunning portraits and high-quality zoom. This is a uniquely Apple feature that is surprising and delighting our users. Both iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus are empowering our customers to be more productive, more engaged, and more expressive than ever by integrating hardware, software, and services to create experiences that only Apple can deliver. It was our best quarter ever for Services, with almost $7.2 billion in revenue. App Store customers broke all-time records during the holiday quarter, including $3 billion in purchases in December alone, making it the App Store's single best month ever. Our innovative and vibrant developer community has created over 2.2 million apps for doing almost anything that you can imagine. Apple's developer community has now earned over $60 billion, including over $20 billion in 2016 alone. Revenue from our music business grew for the third quarter in a row, and our AppleCare and iPlus storage services had all-time record results. Apple Pay continued its strong momentum, with the number of users more than tripling over the past year and hundreds of millions of transactions and billions of dollars in purchases in the December quarter alone. Transaction volume was up over 500% year over year as we expanded to four new countries, including Japan, Russia, New Zealand, and Spain, bringing us into a total of 13 markets. Apple Pay on the Web is delivering our partners great results. Nearly 2 million small businesses are accepting invoice payments with Apply Pay through Intuit QuickBooks Online, FreshBooks, and other billing partners. And beginning this quarter, Comcast customers can pay their monthly bill in a single touch with Apple Pay. Services are becoming a larger part of our business, and we expect the revenues to be the size of a Fortune 100 company this year. Our Services offerings are now driving over 150 million paid customer subscriptions. This includes our own services and third-party content that we offer on our stores. We feel great about this momentum, and our goal is to double the size of our Services business in the next four years. The Mac not only returned to growth but generated its highest quarterly revenue ever. Our latest data shows that most Mac customers are buying their first Mac, with the vast majority of them coming from a Windows PC. The new MacBook Touch with Touch Bar is an outstanding example of the innovation made possible by integrating world-class hardware and software. We were supply constrained for the new MacBook Pro throughout the December quarter and are just now coming into supply/demand balance. It was also our best quarter ever for Apple Watch, both units and revenues, with holiday demand so strong that we couldn't make enough. Apple Watch is the best-selling smartwatch in the world and also the most loved, with the highest customer satisfaction in its category by a wide margin. Apple Watch is the ultimate device for a healthy life, and it is the gold standard for smartwatches. We couldn't be more excited about Apple Watch. We're also thrilled with the response to AirPods. Customers love the magical experience AirPods are delivering. And if you haven't tried them yet, you'll be delighted when you do. They're far ahead of anything else on the market today, and we're working hard to catch up with the incredible demand. With AirPods off to a fantastic start, a strong full first year for Apple Watch, and Beats headphones offering a great wireless experience using the Apple-designed W1 chip, we now have a rich lineup of wearable products. Their design, elegance, and ease of use make us very excited about the huge growth potential for wearables going forward. Our ecosystem is broadening to more and more of the areas where people spend their time, at the gym, on the go, in the home, and on the job. For example, every major automaker is committed to supporting CarPlay with over 200 different models announced, including five of the top 10 selling models in the United States. There are well over 1 million people using CarPlay now, and this continues to grow rapidly. And we are leading the industry by being the first to integrate home automation into a major platform with iOS 10. With Siri and a new Home app in iOS 10, everywhere you go, you can easily and securely control all of your home accessories with your iPhone, iPad, or your Apple Watch. The number of HomeKit-compatible accessories continues to grow rapidly, with many exciting solutions announced just this month, including video cameras, motion detectors, and sensors for doors, windows, and even water leaks. Perhaps even more importantly, we are unmatched when it comes to securing your home with HomeKit-enabled door locks, garage doors, and alarm systems. I'm personally using HomeKit accessories and the Home app to integrate iOS into my home routine. Now when I say good morning to Siri, my house lights come on and my coffee starts brewing. When I go to the living room to relax in the evening, I use Siri to adjust the lighting and turn on the fireplace. And when I leave the house, a simple tap on my iPhone turns the lights off, adjusts the thermostat down, and locks the doors. When I return to my house in the evening, as I near my home, the house prepares itself for my arrival automatically by using a simple geofence. This level of home automation was unimaginable just a few years ago, and it's here today with iOS and HomeKit. We're making great progress in the enterprise market alongside our major partners. The combination of iOS and Cisco technology is giving companies everywhere the opportunity to vastly improve the user experience for their mobile employees. With enhanced networking performance, up to eight times faster roaming, better reliability for apps, and native voice experience, we're excited about how much more productive the workforce will be with these great capabilities. In fact, the total number of joint customer opportunities has grown over 70% since last quarter. Enterprises are using IBM's new Mobile at Scale design and development model to deploy multiple iOS apps with speed and efficiency. For example, Finnair is transforming aircraft maintenance, and CEMEX is revamping activities from attracting new clients to invoicing to after-sales support. And later this spring, SAP will be rolling out its SDK for iOS, providing its community of more than 2.5 million developers the tools to build powerful native iOS apps that leverage the SAP HANA cloud platform. We're delighted with how these partnerships are making it even easier for enterprise customers to transform how work gets done with iOS. As we reflect on a record-breaking December quarter, I'd like to thank our developers, our business partners, and our employees for their incredible contributions and commitment. And I'd like to thank all of our customers around the world for their excitement and loyalty, which ultimately drive these results. Now I'd like to turn it over to

Inc.: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon everyone. Revenue for the December quarter was $78.4 billion, the highest quarterly revenue in the history of Apple and above our guidance range. As Tim mentioned, the strength of our results was very broad-based, as we set new revenue records for iPhone, for Services, for Mac, and for Apple Watch. We also established new all-time revenue records in most developed and emerging markets, with strong growth rates in many countries, including the U.S., Japan, Canada, France, Australia, Brazil, India, Turkey, and Russia. We accomplished all this despite a very challenging foreign exchange environment due to the continued strength of the U.S. dollar. As we had expected, our year-over-year performance in Greater China improved significantly relative to the September quarter. Total Greater China segment revenue was down 12%, but revenue from Mainland China was even with the all-time record results from a year ago and grew in constant currency terms. In all other geographic segments, we generated all-time quarterly record results. We had the benefit of a 14th week during the quarter this year, but this was offset by four factors. First, this year we grew China inventory significantly less than a year ago. Second, iPhone 7 launched earlier in the September quarter compared to the iPhone 6s launch the previous year, creating a more difficult comparison for the December quarter this year. Third, the stronger U.S. dollar affected total revenue growth this year by 100 basis points. And fourth, our year-ago revenue included the benefit of a one-off $548 million patent infringement payment. Also, strong customer interest left us in supply/demand imbalance for several of our products throughout the quarter this year. Gross margin was 38.5%, at the high end of our guidance range. Operating margin was 29.8% of revenue, and net income was $17.9 billion. Diluted earnings per share were $3.36, a new all-time record, and cash flow from operations was $27.1 billion. We had a terrific quarter for iPhone as we sold 78.3 million units, a new all-time record and an increase of 5% over last year. Customer demand was even higher than our reported results, as iPhone unit sell-through was up 8%. We saw double-digit iPhone growth in the U.S., in Canada, Western Europe, Japan, and Australia, and even stronger growth in many emerging markets, including Brazil, Turkey, Russia, Central and Eastern Europe, and Vietnam. iPhone ASP increased to $695 in the December quarter from $619 in the September quarter, driven by the very strong product mix and the amazing success of iPhone 7 Plus. Despite stronger demand than last year, we added only 1.2 million units of iPhone channel inventory across the quarter, significantly less than the increase of 3.3 million units a year ago. And we exited the quarter near the low end of our 5 to 7-week target channel inventory range. Customer interest and satisfaction with iPhone are exceptional, not only with consumers, but also with business users. In the U.S., for instance, the latest data from 451 Research on consumers indicates a 97% customer satisfaction rating among all iPhone owners and a 99% satisfaction rating for owners of iPhone 7 Plus. Among corporate smartphone buyers, the iPhone customer satisfaction rating was 94%. And of those planning to purchase smartphones in the March quarter, 78% plan to purchase an iPhone. Turning to Services, we generated an all-time record $7.2 billion in revenue, an increase of 18% year over year. Our run rate growth was actually higher when taking into account two discrete items. On one hand, the 14th week added to Services revenue this December quarter. On the other hand, that benefit was more than offset by the comparison to the one-off $548 million patent infringement payment included in Services revenue a year ago. The App Store continued its impressive run, breaking all previous revenue records. Year-over-year App Store revenue growth was 43% through the first 13 weeks of the quarter. It's great to see that both average revenue per paying account and the number of paying accounts grew strongly during the quarter. And according to App Annie's latest report, App Store revenue continues to outpace the industry overall, with more than double the revenue of Google Play in calendar 2016. Next I would like to talk about the Mac. We sold 5.4 million Macs and generated our highest-ever quarterly Mac revenue. We were very happy to report double-digit unit growth in several countries, including Japan, Mainland China, India, the Netherlands, and Sweden, as well as in the U.S. education market. We ended the quarter at the low end of our 4 to 5-week target range for Mac channel inventory. Turning to iPad, we sold 13.1 million units, which was ahead of our expectations. And we posted double-digit growth in both Mainland China and India, as we've expanded distribution channels in those countries and we continue to attract a very high percentage of first-time tablet buyers. We also reduced channel inventory by about 700,000 units as opposed to an increase of 900,000 units last year, and we exited the quarter near the low end of our five to seven-week target range. iPad is incredibly successful in the segments of the tablet market where we compete, both in terms of market share and customer metrics. Recent data from NPD indicates that iPad had 85% share of the U.S. market for tablets priced above $200. And in November, 451 Research measured a 94% consumer satisfaction rate for iPad Mini, a 97% rate for iPad Air, and 96% for iPad Pro. Among U.S. consumers planning to purchase a tablet within the next six months, purchase intention for iPad is more than four times higher than any other brand measured, with iPad Pro once again the top choice for planned purchases. Corporate buyers reported a 96% satisfaction rate and a purchase intent of 66% for the March quarter. In fact, businesses of all sizes are choosing iPad and iPhone to have them reimagine their everyday activities. We're seeing strong momentum in sectors such as retail, where iOS solutions are being deployed for everything from product development to logistics to mobile point-of-sale. Companies like Toys "R" Us, Coach, and Kate Spade are using iOS and our mobility partner solutions to dramatically transform their customer and employee experiences. Our retail stores experienced strong double-digit growth in visitors and revenue in the December quarter. And we continued to expand our global presence, with plans to open our first store in Singapore and our second store in Dubai soon. We are continually updating our stores and adding new and exciting outreach programs to educate kids on our products, entertain the community with fresh live music, teach future Swift developers to code, and empower entrepreneurs to start, grow, and evolve their businesses. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $246.1 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $8.5 billion. $230.2 billion of this cash or 94% of the total was outside the United States. We also had $77.1 billion in term debt and $10.5 billion in commercial paper outstanding at quarter end. We returned almost $15 billion to investors during a very busy December quarter for our capital return activities. We paid $3.1 billion in dividends and equivalents. We spent $5 billion on repurchases of 44.3 million Apple shares through open market transactions. And we launched a new $6 billion ASR, resulting in an initial delivery and retirement of 44.8 million shares. We also completed our eighth accelerated share repurchase program, retiring an additional 4.4 million shares. This led to a net diluted share count reduction of 65.3 million shares during the quarter. We've now completed $201 billion of our current $250 billion capital return program, including $144 billion in share repurchases. And we plan to provide investors with our annual update on the capital return program in the spring. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 26%, as expected. And as we move ahead into the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $51.5 billion and $53.5 billion. This guidance range includes a $1.2 billion year-over-year headwind from foreign exchange. We expect gross margin to be between 38% and 39%. This guidance range includes an 80 basis points sequential headwind from foreign exchange. We expect OpEx to be between $6.5 billion and $6.6 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $400 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 26%. Also today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend up $0.57 per share of common stock, payable on February 16, 2017 to shareholders of record as of February 13, 2017.

Inc.: And we ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow-up. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

C: Thank you. First, I wanted to ask about the iPad. It looked like it was about to turn possibly even positive. You said it was above your plan, but I think it was pretty well below the Street's expectations. And the ASP deteriorated pretty significantly. I don't know if it's a mix shift. But maybe you can talk about the i

Inc.: The iPad, Steve, we had a 1.6 million-unit swing on channel inventory between the years. In the year-ago quarter we increased by 900,000. In this quarter we decreased by 700,000. On top of that and from an ASP point of view, in the year-ago quarter we launched the iPad Pro 13 Edge. That would be the iPad with obviously the highest price on it. We would have done the channel fill plus the launch of the product, and so that would have bolstered the ASPs in that particular quarter. In addition to all of that, we did under-call the number of iPads that would be in demand for the quarter, and that compounded a shortage issue that we had with one of our suppliers. And so all in all, there were quite a few things going on there. If I zoom out of the 90-day clock and look at it, we've got some exciting things coming on iPad. I still feel very optimistic about where we can take the product. When we look at the number of people buying iPads for the first time, which is a good thing to look at from a point of view of whether things are reaching a penetration point or not, the numbers indicate that it's not close to that kind of thing. The customer sat numbers are through the roof. Literally, the customer sat for the iPad Pro is 99%. It's stunning. And so I see a lot of good things and hope for better results, but we are still currently in this shortage issue now, and I'm not projecting to get out of that totally during the quarter. And so it will damper this quarter somewhat. But again, beyond the 90-day clock,

C: Okay, that's great, thank you. And then, Tim, investors tend to think of the iPhone as mature and technology improvements as incremental, yet I believe you said there's plenty of runway left in terms of appealing new features. Do you think there are future enhancements coming that will be viewed as material by users, and particularly changes beyond form factor, beyond the way the phone looks? Are there functional things coming over time that you think could surprise people?

Inc.: I think the smartphone is still in the early innings of the game. I think there's lots more to do. I think it's become – every year it becomes more important to people's lives and there are more things people are doing with it. I talked a little bit about home automation, but I could have talked about health. I could have talked more about CarPlay. The use of it in the enterprise is growing significantly. And so when I look at all of these things, usage going up, app developers still innovating, we've got some exciting things in the pipeline, I feel really, really good about it. So this is one that we think different about a bunch of things, but maybe this is just one more.

Inc.: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us. Today we are reporting strong March quarter results, with accelerating revenue growth and earnings per share up 10% over last year. We feel great about this performance. Revenue was $52.9 billion, near the high end of our guidance range. Global revenue was up 5% year on year, with growth accelerating from our December quarter performance. That's despite a $1 billion year-over-year revenue headwind from foreign exchange in the March quarter and a larger iPhone channel inventory reduction this year versus last year. iPhone sales were line in line with our expectations, and we're thrilled to see the continued strong demand for iPhone 7 Plus with its beautiful large display and dual-camera system. Our active installed base of iPhones grew by double digits year over year. And based on the latest data from IDC, we gained market share in nearly every country we track. Late in the quarter, we released the stunning (PRODUCT)RED Special Edition versions of iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus in recognition of 10 years of our partnership with RED. This relationship has given our customers an unprecedented way to contribute to the global fund and bring the world a step closer to an AIDS-free generation. We've seen wonderful customer response to these eye-popping new iPhones. For the second quarter in a row, our Services revenue topped $7 billion, and it's well on the way to being the size of a Fortune 100 company. We're very happy to see the deep level of customer engagement with the Apple ecosystem across all of our services. App Store momentum is terrific, with revenue growing 40% year over year to an all-time quarterly record. The number of developers offering apps for sale on our store was up 26% over last year, and we're thrilled to see their success. We also saw double-digit revenue growth from Apple Music subscriptions and iCloud storage and overall very strong growth in the total number of paid subscriptions for our own services and the third-party content we offer on our stores. Paid subscriptions now exceed 165 million. Apple Pay is experiencing phenomenal traction. With the launch of Taiwan and Ireland in the March quarter, Apple Pay is now live in 15 markets with more than 20 million contactless-ready locations, including more than 4.5 million locations accepting Apple Pay in the U.S. alone. We're seeing strong growing usage as points of acceptance expand, with transaction volume up 450% over the last 12 months. In the UK, for example, points of acceptance have grown by 44% in the last year, while monthly Apple Pay transactions have grown by nearly 300%. In Japan, where Apple Pay launched last October, more than 0.5 million transit users are completing 20 million Apple Pay transactions per month. And we're always excited to see our partners bring their customers new ways to use Apple Pay. You can now even send a Starbucks gift card via iMessage with just a touch. We're seeing great momentum from our powerful advances in Messages. In fact, at one point during the Super Bowl in February, customers were sending 380,000 Messages per second, more than double the previous year. A few weeks ago, we introduced Clips, a new app that's another great example of how we're continually making our products even more engaging, and it's off to a great start. With Clips, it's fun and easy to combine video, photos, and music on an iPhone or an iPad into great-looking expressive videos with great visual effects and titles just using your voice, then share your clips with friends through the Messages app or on social media. We had great Mac results during the quarter. Revenue grew 14% to a new March quarter record and gained market share thanks to strong demand for our new MacBook Pros. Our Mac business has generated over $25 billion in revenue over the past four quarters. We're investing aggressively in its future, and we are very excited about the innovation we can bring to the platform. We also updated our most popular sized iPad with a brighter Retina display and best-in-class performance at its most affordable price ever, and customer response to date has been very strong. iPad results were ahead of our expectations, and we believe we gained share during the March quarter in a number of major markets, including the U.S., Japan, and Australia. iPad remains the world's most popular tablet, and it's the primary computing device for millions of customers across the globe. Building on the momentum from the holiday quarter, Apple Watch sales nearly doubled year over year. Apple Watch is the best-selling and most loved smartwatch in the world, and we hear wonderful stories from our customers about its impact on their fitness and health. We're also seeing great response to AirPods, with a 98% customer satisfaction rating based on a recent Creative Strategy survey. Demand for AirPods significantly exceeds supply, and growth in Beats products has also been very strong. In fact, when we combine Apple Watch, AirPods, and Beats headphones, our revenue from wearable products in the last four quarters was the size of a Fortune 500 company. In Greater China, we were very pleased to see strong double-digit revenue growth from both Mac and Services during the March quarter. We also had great results from our retail stores in mainland China, with total store revenue up 27% over last year and comp store revenue up 7%. These results contributed to our improving performance in Greater China. Through the first two quarters of fiscal 2017, our year-over-year comparisons improved significantly over the last two quarters of fiscal 2016. First half revenue was down 13% year over year, about a third of which was attributable to FX. That's in contrast to a 32% revenue decline in the second half of last year. Our March quarter results were in line with our expectations, and similar to the year-over-year performance we experienced in the December quarter. We continue to be very enthusiastic about our opportunity in China. We set a new March quarter record for India, where revenue grew by strong double digits. We continue to strengthen our local presence across the entire ecosystem, and we're very optimistic about our future in this remarkable country with its very large, young, and tech-savvy population, fast-growing economy, and improving 4G network infrastructure. Apple Retail is entering an exciting chapter with new experiences for customers and breathtaking new store designs. With the opening of our newest store in Dubai this past weekend, we now have 495 retail locations worldwide. The new Apple Dubai Mall is a truly international store, with employees who collectively speak 45 languages, and are already welcoming customers from around the world. As Luca will discuss in a moment, today we're also providing an update to our capital return program. Given our strong confidence in our future, we're increasing the program size by $50 billion, bringing the total to $300 billion, and we're extending the timeframe through March of 2019. We're adding to our share repurchase authorization and increasing our dividend for the fifth time in less than five years. We're very excited about our upcoming Worldwide Developers Conference taking place in San Jose next month. The conference is significantly oversubscribed, and we'll be welcoming thousands of attendees. We look forward to helping them learn about breakthrough technologies across all four of our software platforms – iOS, macOS, watchOS and tvOS – that enable developers to create incredible experiences for every aspect of customers' lives and improve the way they manage their homes, cars, health, and more. I'm very proud to mention that we recently released our 10th annual Environmental Responsibility Report, reflecting our amazing progress. In 2016, 96% of the electricity used at Apple's global facilities came from renewable sources of energy, reducing our carbon emissions by nearly 585,000 metric tons. We're now 100% renewable in 24 countries, including all of Apple's data centers. There's much more work to be done, but we're committed to leaving the world better than we found it. Closer to home, we're excited about moving into our new corporate headquarters, Apple Park, our new center for innovation. The main building on Apple Park is designed to house 13,000 employees under one roof in an environment that fosters even greater collaboration among our incredibly talented teams. We have many more ongoing investments in the United States economy, since Apple is a company that could only have been created in America. Through our innovative products and the success of our business, we're incredibly proud to support more than 2 million jobs in all 50 states, and we expect to create even more. Last fiscal year, we spent more than $50 billion in the United States with American suppliers, developers, and partners, and we continue to invest confidently in our future. Now for more details on the March quarter results,

Inc.: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. Revenue for the March quarter was $52.9 billion, and we achieved double-digit growth in the U.S., Canada, Australia, Germany, the Netherlands, Turkey, Russia and Mexico. Our growth rates were even higher, over 20% in many other markets, including Brazil, Scandinavia, the Middle East, Central and Eastern Europe, India, Korea and Thailand. Gross margin was 38.9%, at the high end of our guidance range. That's a sequential increase from 38.5% in the December quarter, which is particularly impressive given the seasonal loss of leverage, sequential foreign exchange headwinds of 100 basis points, and cost pressures on certain commodities. Operating margin was 26.7% of revenue and net income was $11 billion. Diluted earnings per share were $2.10, an increase of 10% over last year, and cash flow from operations was strong at $12.5 billion. For details by product, I'll start with iPhone. We sold 50.8 million iPhones, and we reduced iPhone channel inventory by 1.2 million units in the quarter, compared to a reduction of about 450,000 a year ago. So our iPhone performance was slightly better than last year on a sell-through basis. We had very solid iPhone growth in four of our five operating segments and experienced especially strong results in Western Europe, the Middle East, and our Rest of Asia-Pacific segment, all areas of the world where iPhone sales were up double digits. iPhone ASP was $655, up from $642 a year ago, thanks to a strong mix of iPhone 7 Plus and in spite of unfavorable foreign exchange rates. We exited the March quarter within our five to seven-week target channel inventory range. Customer interest and satisfaction with iPhone are very strong, not only with consumers but also with business users. In the U.S., the latest data from 451 Research on consumers indicates a 96% customer satisfaction rating among iPhone 7 owners and 98% for iPhone 7 Plus. Among corporate smartphone buyers, iPhone customer satisfaction was 95%. And of those planning to purchase smartphones in the June quarter, 79% plan to purchase iPhone. Turning to Services, we generated $7 billion in revenue, an increase of 18% year over year and our best results ever for a 13-week quarter. We're very happy with the strong level of growth, especially given the tough compare to last year, as the busy week between Christmas and New Year's fell within the March fiscal quarter a year ago but was included in the December fiscal quarter this year. As we said last quarter, our goal is to double the size of our Services business by 2020. The App Store established a new all-time revenue record and grew 40% year over year. We continue to see growth in average revenue per paying account as well as the number of paying accounts across our content stores during the quarter. In fact, the quarterly increase in the number of paying accounts was the largest that we've ever experienced. And according to App Annie's latest report, the App Store continues to be the preferred destination for customer purchases, generating twice the revenue of Google Play during the March quarter. Next I'd like to talk about the Mac. Revenue was up 14% year over year and set a new March quarter record. We sold 4.2 million Macs, up 4% over last year, compared to zero growth in the PC market according to IDC's latest forecast. Demand for MacBook Pro was very strong, helping to drive overall portables growth of 10%, twice the growth of the portables market. We ended the quarter at the low end of our four to five-week target range for Mac channel inventory. Turning to iPad, we sold 8.9 million units, which was ahead of our expectations despite supply constraints throughout the quarter. We are very pleased to see iPad growth in the U.S. during the March quarter and revenue growth worldwide for our 9.7-inch and larger iPads over the last four quarters. iPad channel inventory was essentially flat from the beginning to the end of the quarter, and we exited just below our five to seven-week target range. iPad remains very successful in the segments of the tablet market where we compete. Recent data from NPD indicates that iPad had 81% share of the U.S. market for tablets priced above $200. And in February, 451 Research measured consumer satisfaction rates for iPad that range from 95% for the 9.7-inch iPad Pro to 100% for the 12.9-inch version. Among U.S. consumers planning to purchase a tablet within the next six months, purchase intention for iPad was 69%. Corporate buyers reported a 96% satisfaction rate and a purchase intent of 68% for the June quarter. All our products continue to be extremely popular and drive more buying transformation in the enterprise market. We set a new enterprise revenue record for the March quarter, and we expect this momentum to continue for the remainder of the year. Recently, Volkswagen selected iPhone as their corporate standard smartphone, so 620,000 employees around the world have the opportunity to enjoy the best-in-class mobile experience that iPhone offers. And Capital One has reimagined the customer banking experience by empowering their associates with Mac and Apple Watch and over 40 native iOS applications now running on nearly 30,000 iPhones and iPads. We're also seeing strong momentum with our enterprise partners, who are helping us deliver long-lasting innovation and differentiation for iOS versus competing platforms. The Deloitte partnership is off to a great start, with more than 115 customer opportunities in the pipeline across 15 different industries. SAP released the SAP Cloud Platform SDK for iOS at the end of March, and over 3 million SAP developers now have an even better means to develop powerful iOS-native apps for the enterprise. The partnership with Cisco enables optimized performance of iOS devices over their networks and is generating a large and growing pipeline of sales opportunities across multiple verticals, including healthcare and financial services. And our partnership with IBM continues to drive greater productivity and innovation, with IBM Mobile First for iOS apps now in more than 3,300 client engagements. And with its Mobile at Scale offering, IBM recently closed an agreement to deploy 11,000 iOS devices at Santander Bank to drive digital transformation. Our retail and online stores produced great results, with strong revenue growth in all our geographic segments and 18% growth overall. Visitors to our retail and online stores were up 16% over last year, and we added four new stores during the March quarter. And with the opening of our store in Dubai last week, we're now at 495 stores in 18 countries. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $256.8 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $10.8 billion. $239.6 billion of this cash, or 93% of the total, was outside the United States. We issued $11 billion in debt during the quarter, bringing us to $88.5 billion in term debt and $10 billion in commercial paper outstanding. We returned over $10 billion to investors during the quarter. We paid $3 billion in dividends and equivalents, and we spent $4 billion on repurchases of 31.1 million Apple shares through open market transactions. We also launched a new $3 billion ASR, resulting in initial delivery and retirement of 17.5 million shares. And we retired 6.3 million shares upon the completion of our ninth accelerated share repurchase program in February. All these activities contributed to a net diluted share count reduction of 66.3 million shares in the quarter. We have now completed $211.2 billion of our $250 billion capital return program, including $151 billion in share repurchases. As Tim mentioned, today we're announcing an update to our program, which we are extending by four quarters through March of 2019, and increasing in size to a total of $300 billion. Once again, given our strong confidence in Apple's future and the value we see in our stock, we are allocating the majority of the program expansion to share repurchases. Our board has increased the share repurchase authorization by $35 billion, raising it from the current $175 billion level to $210 billion. We will also continue to net share settle vesting employees' restricted stock units. In addition, we're raising our dividend for the fifth time in less than five years. As we know, this is very important to many of our investors who value income. The quarterly dividend will grow from $0.57 to $0.63 per share, an increase of 10.5%. This is effective with our next dividend, which the board has declared today, payable on May 18, 2017 to shareholders of record as of May 15, 2017. With over $12 billion in annual dividend payments, we're proud to be one of the largest dividend payers in the world, and we continue to plan for annual dividend increases going forward. In total, with this updated program, during the next eight quarters we expect to return $89 billion to our investors, which represents about 12% of our market cap at the current stock price. We expect to continue to fund our capital return program with current U.S. cash, future U.S. cash generation and borrowing from both domestic and international debt markets. We will continue to review capital allocation regularly, taking into account the needs of our business, investment opportunities, and our financial outlook. We'll also continue to solicit input on our program from a broad base of shareholders. This approach will allow us to be flexible and thoughtful about the size, the mix, and the pace of our program. As we move ahead into the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $43.5 billion and $45.5 billion. We expect gross margin to be between 37.5% and 38.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $6.6 billion and $6.7 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $450 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 25.5%.

Inc.: Thank you, Luca, and we ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow-up. Rebecca, may we have the first question, please?

Inc.: Thank you, Katy, a lot of questions. Let me take them one by one. Let me start with our performance for the March quarter, which we were very happy with. As you said, we were up 40 basis points sequentially. And this is in spite of the fact, as you know, that we lose leverage as we go from the December quarter to the March quarter. The foreign exchange headwind on a sequential basis was 100 basis points. Obviously, that was also a negative. And as you said, we started to experience some level of cost pressure on the memory side, particularly on NAND and DRAM. To offset that, and actually do better than that, we had very good cost performance on other commodities. And the fact that our Services mix increases as we go through the year, that is of course also helping, given the profile of our gross margin for Services. So that answers the question around Q2. As we move into the June quarter, as you know, we tend to have some level of gross margin compression as we go from the March quarter to the June quarter. Again, the majority of that comes from the sequential loss of leverage. We also have a different mix of products as we move into the June quarter, and the cost pressures on memory will remain. We expect to offset partially these impacts with other cost efficiencies, and again, with a mix shift towards Services. The impact on NAND and DRAM will continue to be there, and we expect it to be there. You know we don't guide past the June quarter, but we expect it to be there for the time being. On Qualcomm, I just want to make it very, very clear that we are accruing. We do not expect to be paying more than what we are accruing right now. So we didn't get any benefit in our P&L, in our margins, during the March quarter, and we're not getting any benefit during the

C: Okay, thank you. And just a follow-up for Tim, as you noted in your remarks, the iPhone 7 Plus demand, it's selling incredibly well. And this was a product that was pretty severely supply-constrained in the December quarter. And I just wonder whether there are any lessons learned as you go forward into future product launches around how you manage the timing of announcing a product when there are supply constraints, and how you might work with the supply chain differently around ramping some of these components that have particular difficulties around the yields early on.

Inc.: Katy, one of the things that we did not get right was the mix between the iPhone 7 and the iPhone 7 Plus. There was – wound up that demand was much stronger to the iPhone 7 Plus than we had predicted. And so it took us a little while to adjust all the way back through the supply chain and to bring iPhone 7 Plus into balance, which occurred early this past quarter. What did we learn from it? Every time we go through a launch, we learn something. And you can bet that we're brushing up our models, and we'll apply everything we learn to the next time.

C: Thank you very much. Tim, can you talk a bit about what's going on in China and give us some more color, especially as you're going through the year? And then obviously you won't talk about the next product launch, but just are there any shifts in demand with Greater China down 14%? Was it all iPhone, or a mix? Anything you can provide, and then

Do you see wearables: A), expanding over time into a broader product line; and B), increasingly being independent of the iPhone longer term?

Inc.: Thanks for the question. We have seen the watch as a really key product category for us since before we launched it. We took our time to get it right, and we've made it even better with the Series 2 offering. And we're really proud of the growth of the business. The watch units more than doubled in six of our top ten markets, which is phenomenal growth, particularly in a non-holiday quarter. And so we couldn't be more satisfied with it. As some people are doing when you begin to combine the watch revenues with the revenues for AirPods, and as you know, this was the first full quarter of shipments for AirPods. It's still very much in the ramping mode, and we're not coming close to satisfying the demand. And then add the Beats products that a group of our customers really enjoy as well, and look on the trailing 12 months – so this is not a forecast – that business was well into the Fortune 500. And so as I look at that, that's pretty fast to come that far. The watch hasn't out very long and AirPods has been out there for three, four months, and so we feel really great about it. Where does it go? I wouldn't want to comment on that, but we do have a really great pipeline here. And I think in terms of competition falling out and so forth, the watch area is really hard. It in essence from an engineering point of view is similar to a phone in terms of the intricacies and so forth. And so I'm not very surprised that some people are falling out of it. But we're very committed to it and believe that – it's already a big business and believe over time it will be even larger.

C: Thank you. And then there was a – you mentioned the 451 Research survey. They did have a couple findings that were interesting. One is a nine-year low in iPhone purchase intent, and that might just be where you are in the cycle. And the other was a declining retention rate in the U.S. toward 80%. Any comment on either of those and whether you're concerned?

Inc.: Anyone that has a standards-essential patent has a responsibility to offer it to everyone that would like it under what are called FRAND terms. FRAND stands for fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory terms. That's both the price and the business terms. Qualcomm has not made such an offer to Apple. And so I don't believe that a – I don't believe anyone is going to decide to enjoin the iPhone based on that. I think that there's plenty of case law around that subject, but we shall see. In terms of why we're withholding royalties, you can't pay something when there's a dispute about the amount. You don't know how much to pay. And so they think we owe some amount, we think we owe a different amount, and there hasn't been a meeting of the minds there. And so at this point, we need the courts to decide that. Unless we are able to, over time, settle between us on some amount, but right now we're depending upon the courts to do that. And so that is the thinking. The reason that we're pursuing this is that Qualcomm's trying to charge Apple a percentage of the total iPhone value. And they do some really great work around standards-essential patents, but it's one small part of what an iPhone is. It's not – it has nothing do with the display or the Touch ID or a gazillion other innovations that Apple has done. And so we don't think that's right, and so we're taking a principled stand on it. And we strongly believe we're in the right, and I'm sure they believe that they are. And that's what courts are for. And so we'll let it go with that.

C: Thank you. I was wondering if I could just follow up a little bit on iPhone demand. If I try and adjust for the drawdown in inventory and the extra week last quarter, I think sequentially iPhones declined about 27% if I make those adjustments. And that's actually quite a bit lower than the normal seasonality we would see from Q1 to Q2, which is typically closer to 20%. I understand your comments around China, but your comparison was 40 points easier this quarter relative to last quarter. And the growth rate improved only marginally, I think, when you adjust for the extra week. And then you made a final comment around a pause on iPhones. So I'm wondering if you could maybe elaborate on, was the below sequential, at least by my calculation, growth rate in Q2 attributable to a pause? And can you characterize what you think upgrade rates are doing, perhaps broadly by geography, to help us better understand what might be happening, or whether there are competitive dynamics that also are at play here that, again, might be contributing to that pause and that sequential decline that I referenced?

Inc.: There are a lot of questions there. Let me give you some color as I see it. In this quarter, we reduced channel inventory by 1.2 million units. And so if you look on a year-over-year basis, which is primarily what we look at from a unit point of view because it would have the seasonality embedded in that, we grew sell-through on a year-over-year basis. Last quarter, I'm sure other folks remember, was a 14-week quarter, and so you have to adjust the rates last quarter to get at what the underlying sell-through growth was. And so I think that when you do that, you're going to find that actually the year-over-year performance is similar between the quarters. In terms of upgraders, we saw the largest absolute number of upgraders ever in any six-month period in the first half of this year, first half of this fiscal year to be precise. And we saw the largest absolute number of switchers outside of Greater China in the same period that we've ever seen. And so in four of the five operating segments, as I think Luca mentioned in his comments, we had very good growth. And it was really propelled by the demand for iPhone 7 Plus, which is growing incredibly fast around the world. And so that's kind of the color I would add there, and hopefully some of that is useful for you.

Co.: Hi, thank you. I had a question for Luca first. Last year, you had a 4 million-unit channel inventory reduction for the iPhone in the June quarter. So just curious what you're expecting for this year just so we have an apples-to-apples comparison as we think about your guidance.

Inc.: As you know, Simona, we do not provide guidance around units and around channel inventory reduction, but our goal is always to have the right amount of weeks of inventory in the channel. And if you look at our history over the last several years, we have fairly consistently reduced channel inventory in the June quarter, so I think it's a fair expectation to have.

Co.: Thank you, and then just for Tim. Tim, you've been excited about the India market for some time and have made strides in establishing a retail, manufacturing, and R&D presence there. So just curious as you look at that market and the rollout of 4G there, is it reasonable for us to assume that Apple can sell something on the order of 10 million to 20 million iPhones there next year and then grow from there?

Inc.: Thank you very much and congratulations on returning to growth consistently. That's great. I believe, Tim, in your prepared comments you mentioned India was growing double digit, which is great. But I believe if you look at geographic information, India is really underpenetrated from an Apple reception perceptive, but yet they have LTE, you have the iPhone SE, a lower priced iPhone. Do you think that say this next 12 – 18 months is going be a turning point, or is it more you need to work with the government to have Apple-owned stores or production there? Or what's it really going to take to get India going along because we think it's just truly a great opportunity?

Inc.: We think it's a great opportunity too, and so we're bringing all the things that we brought to bear in other markets that we've eventually done well in, and that's from channel to stores to our ecosystem and so forth. Phil was just over there opening a developer center last quarter, and so there are a ton of things going on there. And we agree that we are underpenetrated there. Our growth rates are good, really good by most people's expectations, maybe not mine as much. And so we're putting a lot of energy in, just like we have in other geos that eventually wound up producing more and more. So I'm very excited about it. The 4G network investment really began rolling in in a significant way toward the last quarter of last year, as you know. But they are moving fast. They're moving at a speed that I have not seen in any other country in the world once they were started, and it is truly impressive.

Inc.: Thank you, Nancy, and good afternoon and thanks, everyone, for joining us. Today we're proud to announce very strong results for our fiscal third quarter, with unit and revenue growth in all of our product categories. We'll review our financial performance in detail, and I'd also like to talk about some of the major announcements we made in June at our Worldwide Developers Conference. It was our biggest and best WWDC ever, and the advances we introduced across hardware, software, and services will help us to delight our customers and extend our competitive lead this fall and well into the future. For the quarter, total revenue was at the high end of our guidance range at $45.4 billion. That's an increase of 7% over last year, so our growth rate has accelerated in three successive quarters this fiscal year. Gross margin was also at the high end of our guidance, and we generated a 17% increase in earnings per share. iPhone results were impressive, with especially strong demand at the high end of our lineup. iPhone 7 was our most popular iPhone, and sales of iPhone 7 Plus were up dramatically compared to iPhone 6s Plus in the June quarter of last year. The combined iPhone 7 and iPhone 7 Plus family was up strong double digits year over year. One decade after the initial iPhone launch, we have now surpassed 1.2 billion cumulative iPhones sold. Services revenue hit an all-time quarterly record of $7.3 billion, representing 22% growth over last year. We continue to see great performance all around the world, with double-digit growth in each of our geographic segments. Over the last 12 months, our Services business has become the size of a Fortune 100 company, a milestone we've reached even sooner than we had expected. We had very positive results for iPad, with broad-based growth in units, revenue, and market share. iPad sales were up 15% year over year and grew across all of our geographic segments. We achieved our highest global market share in over four years based on IDC's latest estimate of tablet market results for the June quarter. And in markets like China and Japan, over half of iPads sold were to people buying their very first iPad. Our iPad product lineup is stronger than ever. The new iPad we launched in March offers great value and performance. And the all-new 10.5-inch iPad Pro, launched in June, features the world's most advanced display with ProMotion technology and is more powerful than most PC desktops. iPad is the perfect tool for teaching in new and compelling ways, and our iPad results were especially strong in the U.S. education market, where sales were up 32% year over year to over 1 million units. We believe that coding is an essential skill that all students should learn. We're thrilled that over 1.2 million students of all ages are now using iPad and Swift Playgrounds to learn the fundamentals of coding. And over 1,000 K-12 schools across the United States plan to use Apple's Everyone Can Code in their curricula this fall. And for high school and community college students who want to pursue careers in the fast-growing app economy, we announced app development with Swift, an innovative full-year curriculum designed by Apple engineers and educators and provided free to schools to teach students to code and design fully functional apps, gaining critical job skills in software development and information technology. I'd like to turn now to Mac, which gained global unit market share and reached new June quarter unit sales records in mainland China and Japan. Mac revenue grew 7% year over year, driven by the strength of the MacBook Pro and iMac despite IDC's latest estimate of a 4% unit contraction in the global PC market. And with the refresh of almost our entire Mac lineup in June, we're off to a great start for the back-to-school season. Sales of Apple Watch were up over 50% in the June quarter, and it's the number one selling smartwatch in the world by a very wide margin. Apple Watch is having a positive impact on people's health and daily lives and motivating them to sit less and move more. With features like built-in GPS and waterproofing, Apple Watch Series 2 is the perfect companion for hiking, running, and swimming. We're also seeing incredible enthusiasm for AirPod, with 98% customer satisfaction based on Creative Strategy's survey. We have increased production capacity for AirPods and are working very hard to get them to customers as quickly as we can, but we are still not able to meet the strong level of demand. We made some big announcements during the June quarter that I'd like to quickly review. We launched a new investment in the future through our Advanced Manufacturing Fund. We've earmarked at least $1 billion for this program, aimed at helping our manufacturing partners develop innovative production capabilities and create high-skill jobs in the United States. We believe this can lay the foundation for a new era of technology-driven manufacturing in the U.S. The first $200 million from the fund has been committed to Corning to support R&D, capital equipment needs, and state-of-the-art glass processing. And as we announced at WWDC, we have a very exciting fall ahead, with stunning advances in iOS 11, macOS High Sierra, and watchOS4. iOS 11 will make iPhones better than ever with Apple Pay peer-to peer payments, an even more intelligent and natural Siri, new expressive messages with full screen effects, richer and more powerful maps, enhanced live photos and memories and portrait mode effects, and much, much more. iOS 11 will also take the iPad experience to a whole new level, with features such as a customizable dock, Multi-Touch drag and drop, powerful new multitasking, more efficient QuickTime, and great new markup and scanning capabilities. One of the most exciting and most promising announcements from WWDC was the introduction of ARKit, a new set of tools for developers to create augmented reality apps. It's still early in the beta period, but it's clear that ARKit has captured the imagination of our developer community. We think ARKit will help the most creative minds in the industry tap into the latest computer vision technologies to build engaging content. We believe AR has broad mainstream applicability across education, entertainment, interactive gaming, enterprise, and categories we probably haven't even thought of. With hundreds of millions of people actively using iPhone and iPad today, iOS will become the world's biggest augmented reality platform as soon as iOS 11 ships. With iOS 11, we're also bringing the power of machine learning to all Apple developers with Core ML, enabling capabilities like face detection, object tracking, and natural language interpretation. Core ML lets developers incorporate machine learning technologies into their apps with all the processing done right on device, so it respects our customers' data and privacy. For Mac, we provided a peek at the immersive gaming, 3D, and virtual reality experiences made possible with the upcoming release of macOS High Sierra and the amazingly powerful new iMac Pro. We're proud to make the best personal computers in the industry and are very excited to deliver even more innovation in the months to come. Apple Watch will become more intelligent than ever this fall with watchOS4, featuring a proactive Siri watch face, personalized activity coaching, and an entirely new music experience. watchOS4 also introduces GymKit, a groundbreaking technology program to connect workouts with cardio equipment. We also previewed HomePod, a breakthrough wireless speaker for the home that delivers amazing audio quality and uses spatial awareness to sense its location in the room and adjust the audio automatically. Visitors to our listening room at WWDC were blown away by the HomePod's incredible sound, which is unlike any other wireless home speaker on the market. With deep knowledge of music, HomePod is designed to work with your Apple Music subscription to help you enjoy the music you already love as well as to discover great new music, based on your personal preferences. As an intelligent home assistant, HomePod is a great way to send messages, set a timer, get updates on news, sports, and weather, or control smart home kit devices by simply asking Siri to turn on the lights, close the shades, or activate a theme. We can't wait to deliver all of these powerful innovations in the months to come. And we might even have some others to share with you later in the year. Now for more details on the June quarter results,

Inc.: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. Revenue for the June quarter was $45.4 billion, up 7% over last year, an acceleration to the growth rate we reported during the first half of our fiscal year. We achieved these results despite a 200 basis point negative impact from foreign exchange on a year-over-year basis, as currency movements, especially in Europe and China, affected our reported results. Our performance was very strong across the board with growth in all our product categories and almost every market around the world. We achieved double-digit revenue growth in many developed markets, including the U.S., Canada, Germany, Spain, Australia, and Korea, and emerging markets outside of Greater China grew 19% over a year ago. Gross margin was 38.5%, at the high end of our guidance range. Operating margin was 23.7% of revenue and net income was $8.7 billion. Diluted earnings per share were $1.67, up 17% over last year, and cash flow from operations was $8.4 billion. During the quarter we sold 41 million iPhones and reduced iPhone channel inventory by 3.3 million units, leaving us with our lowest level of channel inventory in 2.5 years and well within our five-week to seven-week target inventory range. iPhone sales were up year-over-year in most markets we track, with many markets in Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East growing unit sales by more than 25%. We are very pleased with these iPhone results, especially considering the tough comparison to the June quarter last year when we launched iPhone SE. iPhone ASP was $606, up from $595 a year ago, thanks to strong demand for iPhone 7 Plus, which represented a higher percentage of the iPhone mix compared to the Plus model a year ago. The impact of the stronger mix on ASP was partially offset by negative foreign exchange year over year and the reduction in channel inventory, which took place entirely at the high end of the portfolio. Customer interest and satisfaction with iPhone are very strong with both consumers and business uses. In the U.S., the latest data from 451 Research on consumers indicates a 95% customer satisfaction rating for iPhone 7 and 99% for iPhone 7 Plus. Among consumers planning to buy a smartphone, purchase intention for iPhone was nearly three times the rate of our closest competitor. Among corporate smartphone buyers, iOS customer satisfaction was 94%. And of those planning to purchase smartphones in the September quarter, 78% plan to purchase an iPhone. Turning to Services, we set an all-time quarterly record of $7.3 billion, up 22% year over year. The App Store was a major driver of this performance. And according to App Annie's latest report, it continues to be by a wide margin the preferred destination for customer purchases, generating nearly twice the revenue of Google Play. Revenue from our Apple Music streaming service and from iCloud storage also grew very strongly. And across all of our Services offerings, the number of paid subscriptions reached over 185 million, an increase of almost 20 million in the last 90 days alone. The reach, usage, and functionality of Apple Pay continue to grow. We launched Apple Pay in Italy in May. And the UAE, Denmark, Finland, and Sweden are scheduled to go live before the end of this calendar year. Apple Pay is by far the number one NFC payment service on mobile devices, with nearly 90% of all transactions globally. Momentum is strongest in international markets, where the infrastructure for mobile payments has developed faster than in the U.S. In fact, three out of four Apple Pay transactions happen outside the U.S. And with the launch of iOS 11 this fall, our users in the U.S. will be able to make and receive person-to-person payments quickly, easily, and securely. Next, I'd like to talk about the Mac. Thanks to great performance from the new MacBook Pro, we generated 7% revenue growth over last year and gained share in the global PC market based on the latest data from IDC. Customer satisfaction for Mac is very strong at 97% in the most recent survey from 451 Research, and our active installed base of Mac has grown double digits over a year ago. We ended the quarter within our four to five-week target range for Mac channel inventory, and we have a great lineup of Macs for our customers heading into the busy back-to-school season. Turning to iPad, we sold 11.4 million units, up 15% over last year. We were happy to see iPad growth in each of our geographic segments, with strong double-digit increases in key markets such as the U.S., Japan, Germany, France, and Greater China. We exited the quarter within our five to seven-week target range for iPad channel inventory. NPD indicates that iPad had 55% share of the U.S. tablet market in the month of June, including 8 of the 10 best-selling tablets. That's up from 46% share a year ago. And among tablets priced over $200, iPad's share was 89%. In addition, the most recent survey from 451 Research measured business and consumer satisfaction rates ranging from 95% to 99% across iPad models. And among those planning to buy tablets, purchase intent for iPad was over 70%. Our enterprise business continues to expand, and our customers are transforming the way work gets done with iOS and iPad. Walmart will be deploying more than 19,000 iPads for employee training across 50 states, with projections of over 225,000 associates trained on iPad by the end of the year. Initial response from businesses to iOS 11 and the new iPad Pro has been amazing. And companies including Bank of America, Medtronic, and Panera tell us that they will be rolling out the 10.5-inch iPad Pro throughout key areas of their organizations. We're also seeing real traction with our enterprise partners. Just last month, we unveiled the next set of technology announcements in our partnership with Cisco. This new wave adds a whole new category of security features designed to help enterprises and employees defend against growing cyber threats. We believe this investment in our joint security solutions for iOS will make cyber insurance even more attainable for businesses. SAP is making great strides since launching the SAP cloud platform SDK for iOS in March, with a pipeline of hundreds of global opportunities. SAP has also released SuccessFactors Mobile, its first native iOS app for human resources, which will support 47 million iPhone and iPad users worldwide across multiple industries. And our partnership with Deloitte has recently expanded to several more European countries. We're helping clients transform their businesses with iOS. We jointly developed programs such as the Connected Store, a pop-up version of a retail environment, demonstrating iOS tools for sales and demand generation, as well as tailored apps for safe associates, store management, and customers. We also had a tremendous quarter for iPad in education, up 32% year over year. Following the launch of our new iPad in March, an update to our popular Classroom app, and continued enhancements to iOS that make managing iPads in the classroom even easier. The St. Paul Public School District in Minnesota is renewing its One to One program by deploying over 40,000 iPads across every student and teacher in the district. iPad was chosen because of its power and durability, ease of use, multimedia and accessibility features, and the extensive catalog of iOS apps designed specifically for education. The Shawnee Mission School District outside Kansas City recently purchased 19,000 iPads, extending its One to One program started in 2014 thanks to iPad's intuitive interface, superior reliability, and expansive ecosystem of iOS tools for education. It was a very busy quarter for our retail and online stores, which collectively welcomed over 300 million visitors. In addition to our spectacular new store at the Dubai Mall, we opened our first stores in Singapore and in Taiwan during the quarter, expanding our total store footprint to 497 stores. In May, we kicked off Today at Apple, with new in-store programming from music to photography to art and coding. And our stores collectively hosted 87,000 sessions during the quarter. As Tim mentioned last quarter, we have entered a new chapter in retail with unique and rewarding experiences for our customers and some stunning new stores coming in the near future. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $261.5 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $4.7 billion. $246 billion of this cash, 94% of the total, was outside the United States. We retired $3.5 billion of debt and issued the equivalent of $10.8 billion in new euro and U.S. dollar-denominated debt during the quarter, including our second green bond, bringing us to $96.4 billion in term debt and $12 billion in commercial paper outstanding. We also returned $11.7 billion to investors during the quarter. We paid $3.4 billion in dividends and equivalents and spent $4.5 billion on repurchases of 30.4 million Apple shares through open market transactions. We launched a new $3 billion ASR program, resulting in initial delivery and retirement of 15.6 million shares, and we retired 3.4 million shares upon the completion of our 10th ASR during the quarter. We have now completed $222.9 billion of our $300 billion capital return program, including $158.5 billion in share repurchases. As we move ahead into the September quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $49 billion and $52 billion. We expect gross margin to be between 37.5% and 38%. We expect OpEx to be between $6.7 billion and $6.8 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $500 million. And we expect the tax rate to be about 25.5%. Also today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.63 per share of common stock, payable on August 17, 2017 to shareholders of record as of August 14, 2017.

Inc.: Thank you, Luca, and we ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow-up. Rebecca, may we have the first question, please?

C: Thank you. I wonder if you wanted to make any comments about switching this quarter.

Inc.: Sure. Switching outside of China was up year-on-year, and so we're happy with that. We continue to see people moving over to iOS and it helped with us making the results that Luca announced earlier, including the channel inventory reduction.

C: Okay, and then a government question. First of all, the President suggested that you may build three big beautiful plants. I wonder if you can comment on if that's a possibility either directly or indirectly. And then in China, I think, we all understand that you have to work within the regulations, but maybe you could comment a bit on how you feel your working relationship is with the government and if there is certain lines that you can't cross.

Inc.: Sure. Starting with the U.S., let me just take this question from what are we doing to increase jobs, which I think is probably where it's rooted. We've created 2 million jobs in the U.S., and we're incredibly proud of that. We do view that we have a responsibility in the U.S. to increase economic activity, including increasing jobs, because Apple could have only been created here. And so as we look at that 2 million, there are three main categories of that, and we have actions going on in each of them to further build on that momentum. The first category is app development. About three-quarters of the 2 million are app developers. And we're doing an enormous amount of things to deliver curriculum to both K-12 with Swift Playgrounds in the K-to-6 area, other curriculum as you proceed beyond grade 6 under the Everyone Can Code area. And just a couple months ago, we announced a new curriculum that's focused on community schools and community colleges, junior colleges, technical colleges, for kids that did not have coding in their elementary and high school years. And so we're excited about that because we think it could increase the diversity of the developer community and the quantity. And I think this area in general and all the things we do for the developer community will be the largest contribution that Apple can make because this is the fastest growing job segment in the country, and I think will be for quite some time. If you look at the second area, we have purchased – or we purchased last year about $50 billion worth of goods and services from U.S.-based suppliers. Some significant portion of those are manufacturing-related, and so we've asked ourselves what can we do to increase this. And you may have seen that at the beginning of the quarter, sometime in April I believe, we announced a fund, an Advanced Manufacturing Fund, that we're initially placing $1 billion in. And we've already deployed $200 million of that. And the first recipient is Corning in Kentucky, and they'll be using that money to expand the plant to make very innovative glass. And we purchase that glass and essentially export it to the world with iPhones and iPads. We think there's more of these that we can do. I think there are probably several plants that can benefit from having some investment to grow or expand or even maybe set up shop in the U.S. for the first time, so we're very excited about that. And then the third area is we have about two-thirds or so of our total employee base is in the U.S. despite only a third of our revenues being here, and we'll have some things that we'll say about that later in the year. And so that's what we're doing from a job growth point of view, and we're very, very proud of that. Now turning to China, let me comment on what I assumed is at the root of your question about this VPN issue. Let me just address that head on. The central government in China back in 2015 started tightening the regulations associated with VPN apps, and we have a number of those on our store. Essentially, as a requirement for someone to operate a VPN, they have to have a license from the government there. Earlier this year, they began a renewed effort to enforce that policy, and we were required by the government to remove some of the VPN apps from the App Store that don't meet these new regulations. We understand that those same requirements are on other app stores, and as we checked through that, that is the case. Today there are actually still hundreds of VPN apps on the App Store, including hundreds by developers that are outside China, and so there continues to be VPN apps available. We would obviously rather not remove the apps, but like we do in other countries, we follow the law wherever we do business. And we strongly believe that participating in markets and bringing benefits to customers is in the best interest of the folks there and in other countries as well. And so we believe in engaging with governments even when we disagree. And in this particular case, now back to commenting on this one, we're hopeful that over time the restrictions that we're seeing are loosened because innovation really requires freedom to collaborate and communicate, and I know that that is a major focus there. And so that's what we're seeing from that point of view. Some folks have tried to link it to the U.S. situation last year, and they're very different. In the case of the U.S., the law in the U.S. supported us, which was very clear. In the case of China, the law is also very clear there. And like we would if the U.S. changed the law here, we'd have to abide by them in both cases, that doesn't mean that we don't state our point of view in the appropriate way. We always do that. And so hopefully that's a little bit probably more than you wanted to know, but

C: Thank you, a question for Tim maybe on the iPhone install base. At various points in the past you've told us the rate at which that was growing. At the end of the first half, what is that up year on year? At what rate is it growing? Can you give us some sense of that? And on upgrade rates over the longer term, there are lots of moving parts, and I get that there's I guess geographic mix shift of your base. There's many new phones that you may or may not bring out. There's how carriers promote your products. But do you think this upgrade rate is sustainable? Do you think it gets faster all the time? How should we think about the major drivers that you want to see for it?

Inc.: I think the upgrade rate is a function of many, many different things, from the size of the installed base, the age of the installed base, the product that is new at the time, the regional distribution, the upgrade plans that are in various markets around the world. And so I think there are many, many factors in that. It's not a simple thing that you can apply a set formula to or one variable or a couple of variable formula in my opinion. But I think in general, because our installed base was up strong double digit once again, there's a lot of factors that are very positive for us. And between the upgraders and the switchers that we see, and the first-time buyer category is still out there too in several countries, including some that you may not think there is, there's still a sizable base in some. Between those three areas, I think we have a lot of opportunity.

C: Yes, thank you. I have one for Luca and one for Tim, please. Luca, typically in the fiscal Q4, Apple builds considerable iPhone channel inventory, like 2 million or 3 million units. You're starting from a very low point at the end of fiscal Q3, as you mentioned on the call, with the drawdown. As we think about what's embedded in your guidance for fiscal Q4 for channel inventory for iPhone, should we be expecting a normal seasonal build, or is it likely to be significantly higher given the very low starting point?

Inc.: As you know, Toni, we do not guide on channel inventory. We've never done that. We are providing a fairly wide range from a revenue standpoint, so obviously that also has an impact on potential channel inventory levels. One thing that I would tell you is that we feel very good about the performance of the business right now. We think that our Services business will continue to grow well. We've got a lot of momentum on iPad and Mac because we refreshed the lineups of those products. Watch and AirPods are doing incredibly well. We're getting a lot of positive customer feedback. And I think in general, even the performance in China, Tim has mentioned it. We think that the performance will continue to improve. So those are the drivers of our guidance range for the quarter.

C: Okay, thanks. Tim, I was wondering if you could maybe talk a little bit about two things that you mentioned in public before. One is television, which you have described as an area of intense interest, but I don't even think there was an update on Apple TV on this call. So perhaps you can talk to us about how you're thinking about content. I know you're doing some original content creation, and how that area is evolving in your thinking. And then recently you talked about how Apple is focusing on autonomous systems for automobiles. And there has been press reports that Apple has been testing autonomous vehicles for potentially up to a year. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about Apple's interest in autonomous vehicles and whether self-driving is really likely to be Apple's principal focus in the near to medium-term.

Inc.: Amit, Luca. Our Services business is very broad. We've got multiple categories in the Services business, so it's difficult to talk about ARPU in general. It doesn't make a lot of sense. The reason for the acceleration also here is multiple factors. One that is very, very important for us is the fact that the App Store, which is the largest of our Services categories, is seeing an increasingly larger amount of paying accounts. On a year-over-year basis, the number of accounts that are actually transacting and paying on the App Store is growing very, very well. It is happening for a variety of reasons. One of them, for example, is the fact that we are making it easier for customers to pay on the App Store. Outside the United States, in many markets, not every form of payment is accepted. We are making it easier all the time. We launched on Alipay, for example, in China during the December quarter. That has obviously helped a lot with the growth in the number of paid accounts. And we continue to bring more and more forms of payment in the App Store around the world. That's a big reason for that. The other reason why the number of paying accounts is growing is the fact that the quality and the quantity of content continues to improve. And so there's many more ways of experiencing games and entertainment and other apps on the store. We have other businesses like the Apple Music streaming service, which is growing very fast because we just started it a couple of years ago, so we are getting a lot of new subscribers there. Our iCloud storage business continues to grow very, very fast. So it's multiple services. The number of people transacting on our stores continues to grow. In terms of ARPU, maybe I can make a comment on ARPU specifically related to the App Store. What we're seeing and we've seen over a long period of time as we keep track of these cohorts of customers, we see that as customers get on the App Store and start spending on it, we see the spending profile is very similar across generations of customers. People tend to spend more over time. Obviously, you have different spending profiles in different geographies around the world, but in general you see that trend across the board.

C: Got it, that's really helpful. And if I could just follow up, on the iPhone side, there's been a large amount of discussion in blogs and among your component suppliers that the timing this time may be somewhat different and delayed versus past. Your guide almost seems you're more excited about this iPhone launch versus historically because the sequential growth is better. So I guess beyond the fact we probably shouldn't read every blog and believe every blog, what do you think is different with this product launch or product availability through the cycle versus what you've seen historically?

C: Yes. Tim, growth in the smartphone market is now crawling along at about a low single digit percentage. I know iPhone grew about 2% year over year this quarter, and it looks like you had about a mid-teens market share in units in 2016. So as we look forward maybe three to four years, do you think Apple can expand its unit market share? And if so, what will be the drivers be? And my second question is just about India, general thoughts about

Inc.: The answer to your first question is yes. I do think that we can grow both in units and market share. We don't predict those things, but yes, if you ask me what I think, that's what I think. And so what are the drivers? The installed base is growing. It's still growing very strongly. That will generate more upgrades over time. I feel good about our ability to convince people to switch. And where the developed markets the first-time buyer rates are down other than places like Japan perhaps, the emerging markets, we haven't even gotten started yet, really. From a revenue point of view, we had very strong growth there. Emerging markets ex-China were up 18% year on year. It was a record for us, so we see a lot of opportunity in these markets. We are investing in India. As you mentioned in your second point, we've already launched an app accelerator center. That's on top of working with the channel and looking at expanding our go-to-market in general. And we began to produce the iPhone SE there during the quarter, and we're really happy with how that's going. And so we're bringing all of our energies to bear there. I see a lot of similarities to where China was several years ago. And so I'm very, very bullish and very, very optimistic about

Inc.: Good afternoon, and thanks to everyone for joining us. As we closed the books on a very successful fiscal 2017, I have to say I couldn't be more excited about Apple's future. This was our biggest year ever in most parts of the world with all-time record revenue in the United States, Western Europe, Japan, Korea, the Middle East, Africa, Central and Eastern Europe and Asia. We had particularly strong finish this year, generating our highest September quarter revenue ever as year-over-year growth accelerated for the fourth consecutive quarter. Revenue was $52.6 billion, above the high end of our guidance range, and up 12% over last year. We generated revenue growth across all of our product categories and showed all-time record results for our Services business. As we expected, we returned to growth in greater China, with unit growth and market share gains for iPhone, iPad, and Mac. In fact, it was an all-time record quarter for Mac sales in mainland China as well as an all-time high for Services revenue. And revenue from emerging markets outside of greater China was up 40%, with great momentum in India, where revenue doubled year over year. We also had great results in enterprise and education with double digit growth in worldwide customer purchases of iPad and Mac in both markets. Gross margin for the September quarter was at the high end of our guidance range, and thanks to exceptional work by our teams, we generated record fourth quarter earnings per share of $2.07, up 24% from a year ago. iPhone sales exceeded our expectations. In the last week and a half of September, we began shipping iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus to customers in more than 50 countries. They instantly became our two most popular iPhone models and have been every week since then. As we speak, the launch of iPhone X is now underway as stores open across Australia and Asia. iPhone X is packed with innovative new technologies that chart our path for the next decade, technologies like the TrueDepth camera system, Super Retina Display, and A11 Bionic chip with neural engine, which has been in development for years with a focus on deep machine learning. iPhone X enables totally new experiences like unlocking your iPhone with Face ID, taking photos with studio-quality lighting effects, or playing immersive augmented reality games. We can't wait for people to experience our vision of the future. Orders have already been very strong, and we're working to get iPhone X into customers' hands as quickly as possible. Turning to Services. Revenue reached an all-time quarterly record of $8.5 billion in the September quarter. A few quarters ago, we established a goal of doubling our fiscal 2016 services revenue of $24 billion by the year 2020, and we are well on our way to meeting that goal. In fiscal 2017, we reached $30 billion, making our Services business already the size of a Fortune 100 company. We're also delighted to report our second consecutive quarter of double-digit unit growth for iPad. Customers have responded very positively to the new iPad lineup. And with the launch of iOS 11, the iPad experience has become more powerful than ever, with great new features for getting things done like the new dock, Files app, drag and drop, multitasking and more power than most PC notebooks. The launch of iOS 11 also made iOS the world's largest platform for augmented reality. There are already over 1,000 apps with powerful AR features in our App Store today, with developers creating amazing new experiences in virtually every category of apps aimed at consumers, students and business users alike. Put simply, we believe AR is going to change the way we use technology forever. We're already seeing things that will transform the way you work, play, connect and learn. For example, there are AR apps that let you interact with virtual models of everything you can imagine, from the human body to the solar system. And of course, you experience them like they're really there. Instantly, education becomes much more powerful when every subject comes to life in 3D. And imagine shopping when you can place an object in your living room before you make a purchase, or attending live sporting events when you can see the stats on the field. AR is going to change everything. iOS 11 is also allowing developers to integrate machine learning models into their apps with Core ML. Pinterest is already using Core ML to deliver fast and powerful visual search. PadMapper uses Core ML to provide intelligent features that make it easy to find or rent your apartment. And VisualDx is even pioneering new health diagnostics with Core ML, automating skin image analysis to assist dermatologists with their diagnoses. These are just a few examples. There's so much more to come. Next, I'd like to talk about the Mac, which had its best year ever, with the highest annual Mac revenue in Apple's history. It was also the best September quarter ever, with Mac revenue growth of 25% driven by the notebook refreshes we launched in June and a strong back-to-school season. The Mac experience has become even better since the September launch of macOS High Sierra, with new technologies to make Mac more reliable, capable and responsive and lay the foundation for future innovation. Moving on now to Apple Watch. With unit growth of over 50% for the third consecutive quarter, it continues to be the best selling and most loved smartwatch in the world. We began shipping Apple Watch Series 3 just six weeks ago and customers love the new freedom of cellular. The ability to go for a run with just your Apple Watch or go for a quick errand without your phone while staying connected is a game changer. Now more than ever, Apple Watch is the ultimate device for a healthy life and is already making a big difference in our customers' lives. We're very excited about the upcoming launch of the Apple Heart Study, which will use data from Apple Watch to identify irregular heart rhythms and notify users when unusual patterns are detected. Earlier this week, we introduced watchOS 4.1, bringing 40 million songs to your wrist through Apple Music. The combination of music streaming on Apple Watch and AirPods is truly a magical experience for people on the go. We're thrilled with the momentum of these products. In fact, our entire wearables business was up 75% year over year in the fourth quarter and in fiscal 2017, already generated the annual revenue of a Fortune 400 company. Late in the September quarter, we also launched Apple TV 4K, delivering a stunning cinematic experience at home. So now users around the world can watch movies and shows in 4K HDR quality and stream live sports and news on the Apple TV app. There's already a great selection of 4K HDR titles available through iTunes and other popular video services with many more movies and shows on the way. We're also very excited about the opening of Apple Michigan Avenue two weeks ago on Chicago's riverfront. This is the first store that brings together our complete vision for the future of Apple retail, providing a welcoming place for everyone to experience our products, services and inspiring educational programs right in the heart of their city. In addition to our very popular Today at Apple programming, which is available in all Apple Stores around the world, offering daily sessions in photography, music creation, art and design, coding and entrepreneurship, Apple Michigan Avenue is partnering with local nonprofits and creative organizations to make an ongoing positive impact in that community. Also this quarter, we expanded our free App Development with Swift curriculum to more than 30 community colleges across the country. We're very excited about this initiative, and we're thrilled by the momentum we're seeing. The schools we've launched with this summer are just the beginning. Community colleges have a powerful reach into communities where education is the great equalizer, and the colleges adopting our curriculum this academic year are providing opportunity to millions of students to build apps that will prepare them for careers in software development and information technology and much more. We're incredibly enthusiastic about what our teams have accomplished this year and all the amazing products in our lineup. As we approach the holiday season, we expect it to be our biggest quarter ever. I'd like to thank all of our teams, our partners and our customers for their passion, commitment and loyalty. You've helped us make 2017 a sensational year. Now for more details on the September quarter results,

Inc.: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon everyone. Revenue for the September quarter was a record $52.6 billion, up 12% over last year, and it has been great to see our growth rate accelerate in every quarter of fiscal 2017. Our terrific performance this quarter was very broad based, with revenue growth in all our product categories for the second quarter in a row and new September quarter revenue records in the Americas, in Europe and in the rest of Asia-Pacific segments. We grew double digits in the U.S., Canada, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Korea and several other developed markets. We were especially happy to return to growth in greater China, where revenue was up 12% from a year ago and with our momentum in India, where revenue doubled year-over-year. We grew more than 30% in Mexico, the Middle East, Turkey and Central and Eastern Europe. These results have fueled overall growth of over 20% from emerging markets. Gross margin was 37.9%, at the high end of our guidance range. Operating margin was 25% of revenue and net income was $10.7 billion. Diluted earnings per share were $2.07, up 24% over last year to a new September quarter record and cash flow from operations was strong at $15.7 billion. During the quarter, we sold 46.7 million iPhones, up 3% over last year. We were very pleased to see double digit iPhone growth in many emerging markets including mainland China, the Middle East, Central and Eastern Europe, India and Mexico. We gained share not only in those markets but also in Canada, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Sweden and Singapore, based on the latest estimates from IDC. iPhone channel inventory increased by 1.3 million units sequentially to support the launch of iPhone 8 and 8 Plus, significantly less than the increase in the September quarter a year ago. Customer interest and satisfaction with iPhone are very strong with both consumers and business users. In the U.S., the latest data from 451 Research on consumers indicates a customer satisfaction rating of 97% or higher across all iPhone models. Among consumers planning to buy a smartphone in the next 90 days, purchase intention for iPhone was 69%, more than 5 times the rate of the closest competitor with a loyalty rate for current iPhone owners of 95% compared to 53% for the next highest brand. For corporate smartphone buyers, iOS customer satisfaction was 95% and of those planning to purchase smartphones in the December quarter, 80% planned to purchase iPhone. That is the highest score for iPhone in the history of the survey. Turning to Services, we set an all-time quarterly record of $8.5 billion, up 34% year over year. Our results included a favorable one-time revenue adjustment of $640 million. On a run rate basis, excluding this adjustment, services growth of 24% was terrific and the highest that we have experienced this year. The App Store set a new all-time record, and according to App Annie's latest report, it continues to be the preferred destination for customer purchases by a wide and growing margin, generating nearly twice the revenue of Google Play. We're getting great response to the App Store's new design in iOS 11 from both customers and developers. We're seeing increases in the frequency of customer visits, the amount of time they spend in the store and the number of apps they download. The success of Apple Music also continues to build and we're seeing our highest conversion rates from customers trying the service. Revenue grew strongly once again in the September quarter and the number of paid subscribers was up over 75% year-over-year. We also saw great performance from our iCloud business with very strong double-digit growth in both monthly average users and revenue. Across all of our Services offerings, the number of paid subscriptions reached over 210 million at the end of September quarter, an increase of 25 million in the last 90 days. Apple Pay expanded to Denmark, Finland, Sweden and the UAE last month and continues to grow rapidly. Over the past year, active users have more than doubled and annual transactions are up 330%. In the U.S., 70% of leading grocery chains are now accepting Apple Pay with the recent launch of Safeway and over 5 million U.S. merchant locations will be Apple Pay enabled by the end of this year. Next, I would like to talk about the Mac, which for fiscal 2017 set a new all-time revenue record of $25.8 billion. We sold 5.4 million Macs during the September quarter, up 10% over last year and gained significant market share as the global market contracted by 1% based on IDC's latest estimate. This performance was fueled primarily by great demand for MacBook Pro and Mac revenue grew 25% to a new September quarter record. We had outstanding results all around the world with each of our geographic segments growing Mac revenue by 20% or more. We were also very happy with the success of Mac in the education market where customer purchases grew double digits year over year. It was also another great quarter for iPad. We sold 10.3 million units, up 11% over last year with strong demand for both iPad and iPad Pro and revenue grew 14%. It was great to see iPad unit and revenue growth in all of our geographic segments and particularly strong results in emerging markets, including greater China, where iPad units sales were up 25% year-over-year and India, which grew 39%. NPD indicates that iPad had 54% share of the U.S. tablet market in the September quarter, including seven of the 10 best-selling tablets. That's up from 47% share a year ago. Also, the most recent surveys from 451 Research measured customer satisfaction rates of 97% across iPad models. And among people planning to buy tablets, purchase intent for iPad was over 70% for both consumers and businesses. We are seeing great momentum with our enterprise initiatives. During the September quarter, we announced a new partnership with Accenture, who is creating a dedicated iOS practice in select locations around the world. Experts from Apple are co-locating with this team and together they'll be launching new tools and services that help enterprise clients transform how they engage with customers using iPhone and iPad. Examples include services to build new customer experiences and to facilitate iOS integration with enterprise systems to help businesses take greater advantage of data from Internet of Things platforms and to enable the smooth transfer of existing legacy applications and data to modern iOS apps. And last month, we announced a partnership with GE to reinvent the way industrial companies work by bringing GE's industrial IoT platform to iOS. The (20:37) SDK for iOS will enable developers to build native apps to drive industrial operations with more efficiency and speed than ever before. GE is also standardizing on iPhone and iPad for its global workforce of more than 330,000 employees and working with Apple, GE is developing iOS apps for both its internal and external audiences to bring predictive data and analytics to workers across a broad range of industries. Beyond our iOS devices, we are also seeing great traction for Mac in the enterprise market with all-time record customer purchases in fiscal year 2017. The September quarter was very strong for our retail and online stores, which welcomed 418 million visitors. Traffic was particularly heavy during the week of our new product announcements, up 19% over last year. Retail ran a very successful back-to-school promotion in the Americas, Europe, China and Singapore, with sales of Mac and iPad Pro up strong double digits compared to last year's program. And around the world, our stores conducted over 200,000 Today at Apple sessions during the quarter. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $268.9 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $7.4 billion. $252.3 billion of this cash, 94% of the total, was outside the United States. We issued $7 billion in new Canadian and U.S. dollar denominated debt during the quarter, bringing us to $104 billion in term debt and $12 billion in commercial paper outstanding. We also returned $11 billion to investors during the quarter. We paid $3.3 billion in dividends and equivalents and spent $4.5 billion on repurchases of 29.1 million Apple shares through open market transactions. We also launched a new $3 billion ASR program, resulting in initial delivery and retirement of 15.1 million shares and we retire 4.5 million shares upon the completion of our 11th ASR during the quarter. We have now completed almost $234 billion of our $300 billion capital return program, including $166 billion in share repurchases. As we move ahead into the December quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. As a reminder, the December quarter in fiscal 2017 spanned 14 weeks, whereas the December quarter this year will include the usual 13 weeks. We expect revenue to be between $84 billion and $87 billion. We expect gross margin to be between 38% and 38.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $7.65 billion and $7.75 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $600 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 25.5%. Also, today our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.63 per share of common stock, payable on November 16, 2017, to shareholders of record as of November 13, 2017.

Inc.: And we ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow up. May we have the first question, please?

Cook: Thanks, Nancy and thanks everyone on the call, and welcome to everyone today. Before we dive into the quarter, I'd like to take a moment to talk about a significant milestone we recently crossed. Apple's active installed base reached 1.3 billion devices in January and is at an all-time high for all of our major products. 1.3 billion devices represents an astonishing 30% growth in just two years. It speaks to the strength and reliability of our products and our ecosystem, as well as the loyalty, satisfaction and engagement of our customers. It's also fueling tremendous growth in our services business, which I’ll talk about a little later in the call. Turning to the December quarter. We're thrilled to report Apple's biggest quarter ever, which set new all-time records in both revenue and earnings. We generated revenue of $88.3 billion, which is above the high-end of our guidance range, and it is up almost $10 billion or 13% over the previous all-time record we set a year ago. It's also our fifth consecutive quarter of accelerating revenue growth with double digit growth in each of our geographic segments around the world. What makes us even more remarkable is that the quarter we're reporting today was 13-weeks long, while the year ago quarter was 14-weeks. When we look at the average revenue per week in the December quarter this year compared to last year, our growth was a stunning 21%. Our growth was broad-based and a key driver was iPhone, which generated its highest revenue ever. iPhone X was the best-selling smartphone in the world in the December quarter according to Canalys, and it has been our top selling phone every week since it launched. iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus rounded out the top three iPhones in the quarter. In fact, revenue for our newly launched iPhones was the highest of any lineup in our history, driving total Apple revenue above our guidance range. I want to take a moment to recognize the tremendous amount of work that went into creating iPhone X. Our teams carried out an extremely complex launch from both an engineering and operations perspective, executing an outstanding product ramp that required years of research and development; one that introduced innovative features like an edge-to-edge Super Retina Display and the TrueDepth Camera, which enables Face ID. Our customers love these new features and the new gestures like simply swiping up from the bottom, which make using iPhone even more intuitive and enjoyable. Our team has put the technology of tomorrow in our customers’ hands today, set a standard for the next decade of smartphones and we are very proud of their achievements. It was another very strong quarter for services with revenue of $8.5 billion, up 18% over last year, and we’re on pace to achieve our goal of doubling our 2016 services revenue by 2020. The number of paid subscriptions across our services offerings passed 240 million by the end of the December quarter, that’s an increase of 30 million in the last 90 days alone, which is the largest quarterly growth ever. We had an all-time record quarter for the App Store with our best holiday season ever. We’re seeing great excitement around augmented reality with customers now enjoying over 2,000 ARKit enabled app, spanning every category in the App Store. In December, when Pokémon GO released its new augmented reality features built with ARKit, it jumped the top of the App Store charts. Last week, on a stop in Toronto, I met developers who are hard at work on creative applications using ARKit from art appreciation to ecommerce, and I was very impressed with what I saw. Just four months after ARKit launched to the public, we’ve already released ARKit 1.5 in beta to developers around the world, and the response has been tremendous. Augmented reality is going to revolutionize many of the experiences we have with mobile devices. And with ARKit, we’re giving developers the most advanced tools on the market to create apps for the most advanced operating system running on the most advanced hardware. This is something only Apple can do. In addition to the App Store, several other services had a biggest quarter ever, including Apple Music, iCloud and Apple Pay, all of which saw growth in both active users and revenue. Apple Pay has reached an important milestone in the U.S. As a result of 50% year-over-year growth in merchant adoption, it’s now accepted at more than half of all American retail locations, which includes more than two-thirds of the country’s top 100 retailers. Now available in 20 markets, global Apple Pay purchase volume more than tripled year-over-year and we’re delighted to be expanding to Brazil in the coming months. Today, you can use Apple Pay to take a subway in Guangzhou, China, see a concert at London’s Wembley Stadium or buy a souvenir in Yosemite National Park. In the U.S., we launched Apple Pay Cash in December, and it’s off to a terrific start. Millions of people are already using it to send and receive money with friends and family quickly, easily and securely; to split a bill, pay someone back, or send last minute gift right from the messages app. It was our best quarter ever for the Apple Watch with over 50% growth in revenue and units for the fourth quarter in a row and strong double-digit growth in every geographic segment. Sales of Apple Watch Series 3 models were also more than twice the volume of Series 2 a year ago. Apple Watch is the most popular, smart watch in the world and gained market share during the quarter based on the latest estimates from IDC. It was the third consecutive quarter of growth for iPad revenue, thanks to the strength of both iPad and iPad Pro. Based on the latest data from IDC, we gained share in nearly every market we track with strong outperformance in emerging markets. Worldwide, almost half of our iPad sales were the first-time tablet buyers or those switching to Apple, and that’s true in some of our most developed markets, including Japan and France. In China, new and switching users made up over 70% of all iPad sales. For Mac, we launched the all new, iMac Pro in mid-December. It’s an entirely new product line designed for our Pro users who love the all-in-one design of iMac and require workstation class performance. It's the fastest, most powerful Mac ever, delivering incredible computational power, for simulation and real time 3D rendering, immersive VR and complex photography audio and video projects. Worldwide, 60% of our Mac sales were to first time buyers and switchers and in China, that number was almost 90%. We're looking forward to getting HomePod in customers’ hands beginning next week. HomePod is an innovative wireless speaker, which delivers stunning audio quality wherever its placed in the home, thanks to the advanced Apple engineered hardware and software. Together with Apple Music, HomePod gives you instant access to one of the world's largest music catalogs. And with the intelligence of Siri, it’s a powerful assistant you control through natural voice interaction. We're very happy with the initial response from reviewers who've experienced HomePod ahead of its launch, and we think our customers are going to love this new product. We believe one of the key issues of the 21st century is education. And because of that, we've strengthened our commitment and investment into initiatives like everyone can code. To find the innovators of the future, we need to nurture the students of today. Our App Development with Swift curriculum, which is available free on iBooks, has been downloaded more than 1.2 million times worldwide with almost half of those coming from here in the United States. It’s also being taught in dozens of community colleges across the country, putting practical skills in the hands of today’s jobs seekers. I was in London two weeks ago as we announced that the program was expanding to more than 70 colleges and universities in Europe. Millions of students around the world will have the opportunity to add Swift to their coding vocabulary and gain skills that are essential for today’s economy. This is an exciting time at Apple and with the best lineup of products and services we've ever had and a set of initiatives that show how business can be a force for good in the world. We could not be more excited about our future. Now, for more details on the

Maestri: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. Our business and financial performance in the December quarter were exceptional, as we set new all-time records for revenue, operating income, net income and earnings per share. Starting with revenue, we’re reporting an all-time record, $88.3 billion, up nearly $10 billion or 13% over the prior record set last year. It is our fifth consecutive quarter of accelerating revenue growth. As you know, the December quarter a year ago spanned 14-weeks compared to 13-weeks this year, which is important to consider as we assess the underlying performance of our business this year. When we look at average revenue per week, our growth rate was even higher at 21% with growth across all product categories for the third consecutive quarter. Our results were terrific all around the world with double digit revenue growth in all our geographic segments, an all-time quarterly record in the vast majority of markets we track, including the U.S., Western Europe, Japan, Canada Australia and Korea, as well as Mainland China, Latin America, The Middle East, Central and Eastern Europe, and India. In Greater China, we were very happy to generate double digit revenue growth for the second quarter in a row and in emerging markets outside of Greater China, we saw 25% year-over-year growth. Gross margin was 38.4% at the high end of our guidance range. Operating margin was 29.8% of revenue. Our net income was $20.1 billion an all-time record, and up $2.2 billion over the last year. Diluted earnings per share were $3.89 also an all-time record and cash flow from operations was very strong of $28.3 billion. During the quarter, we sold 77.3 million iPhones, the highest number ever for a 13-week quarter. Average weekly iPhone sales were up 6% compared to December quarter last year with growth in every region of the world despite the staggered launch of iPhone X. We established all-time iPhone revenue record in nearly every market we track with double-digit growth in all of our geographic segments. iPhone ASP increased to $796 from $695 a year ago, driven primarily by the launch of iPhone X and the success of iPhone 8 and 8 Plus. We exited the December quarter towards the lower end of our target range of five to seven weeks of iPhone channel inventory with less than 1 million more iPhones in the channel compared to the December quarter a year ago, in line with our growth in average weekly unit sales. Customer interest and satisfaction with iPhone are very, very strong for both consumers and business users. The latest data from 451 Research indicates U.S. customer satisfaction ratings of 96% or higher across iPhone models. In fact, combining iPhone 8, iPhone 8 Plus and iPhone X, consumers reported an amazing 99% satisfaction rating. And among business customers planning to purchase smartphones in the next quarter, 77% planned to purchase iPhone. Our customers are also incredibly loyal with Comcast latest U.S. research, reflecting a 96% iPhone loyalty rate, the highest ever measured. Turning to services. We had a terrific quarter with revenue of $8.5 billion, up 18% year-over-year and up 27% in terms of average revenue per week; that is an acceleration to the 24% services growth run rate that we experienced in the September quarter. The App Store set a new all-time revenue record. The Store’s all-new design is off to a fantastic start with quarterly store visitors, transacting accounts and paying accounts, reaching new all-time highs. During the week beginning December 24th, a record number of customers made purchases or downloaded Apps from the App Store, spending over $890 million in that seven-day period, followed by $300 million in purchases on New Year’s day alone. And according to App Annie’s latest report, the App Store continues to be the preferred destination for customer purchases by a very wide margin, generating nearly twice the revenue of Google Play. Across all our services offerings, paid subscriptions reached $240 million with growth of 58% over last year and they were a major contributor to the overall strong growth in services revenue. As Tim mentioned, it was our best quarter ever for Apple Watch. And when we add the results from Beats and AirPods, our total revenue from wearables was up almost 70% year-over-year. In fact, wearables were the second largest contributor to revenue growth after iPhone, which is impressive for a business that started only three years ago. In total, our other products category set a new all-time record with quarterly revenue exceeding $5 billion for the first time. Next, I’d like to talk about the Mac. We sold 5.1 million Macs during the December quarter, which translates to 2% year-over-year increase in average sales per week. Mac performance was particularly strong in emerging markets with unit sales up 13% year-over-year and with all-time records in Latin America, in India, Turkey and Central and Eastern Europe. On a worldwide basis, the active install base of Macs was up double-digits year-over-year to a new record. It was also another growth quarter for iPad. We sold 13.2 million units with average iPad sales per week up 8% over last year’s December quarter. iPad sales grew strong double-digits in many emerging markets, including Latin America, the Middle East, Central and Eastern Europe and India, as well as developed markets, including Japan, Australia and Korea. The active install base of iPad has grown every quarter since its launch in 2010, and it reached a new all-time high in December, thanks to extremely high customer loyalty and large numbers of first-time iPad users. NPD indicates that iPad had 46% share of the U.S. tablet market in the December quarter, up from 36% share a year ago. And the most recent surveys from 451 Research found that among customers planning to purchase tablets within 90 days, 72% of consumers and 68% of business users planned to purchase iPads. Customer satisfaction is also very high with businesses reporting a 99% satisfaction rating for iPad. We are seeing great traction in enterprise as businesses across industries and around the world standardize on iOS. For example, Intesa Sanpaolo, one of Europe’s leading banks, has chosen iOS as the mobile standard for its entire 70,000 employee base in Italy; choosing iOS for its security, user interface, accessibility and reliability, Intesa Sanpaolo will deploy native apps to improve employee productivity in customer support, human resources, and marketing across the company. And LensCrafters, one of the largest optical retail brands in North America, will be using over 7,000 iPad Pros to enable digital eye exams and digital optical measurements in a personalized and interactive experience. We’re also rolling out a new initiative, called Apple at Work to help businesses implement employee choice programs more easily and offer Apple products company-wide. Resources from both Apple and our channel partners will enable enterprise IT and procurement teams to buy or lease Apple products more efficiently, streamline the setup of iPhone, iPad, and Mac, and deliver a seamless onboarding experience for employees. We launched the program with CDW in the U.S. last week, and we would be expanding to more channels and regions later this year. The December quarter was extremely busy for our retail and online stores, which welcomed 538 million visitors. Traffic was particularly strong during the four-weeks following the launch of iPhone X, up 46% over last year. And across the quarter, our stores conducted over 200,000 Today at Apple sessions, covering topics including photography, music, gaming, and app development, and art and design. Just last weekend, we opened our first store in Seoul, Korea and we’re looking forward to opening our first store in Austria in a few weeks. These newest openings will mark the expansion of our retail store presence to 21 countries. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $285.1 billion in cash plus marketable securities, a sequential increase of $16.2 billion. $269 billion of this cash, or 94% of the total, was outside the United States. We issued $7 billion in debt during the quarter, bringing us to $110 billion in term-debt and $12 billion in commercial paper outstanding, for a total net cash position of $163 billion at the end of the quarter. We also returned $14.5 billion to investors during the quarter. We paid $3.3 billion in dividends and equivalents, and spent $5.1 billion on repurchases of 30.2 million Apple shares through open market transactions. We launched a new $5 billion ASR program, resulting in initial delivery and retirement of 23.6 million shares and we retired 3.8 million shares upon the completion of our 12th ASR during the quarter. We’ve now completed over $248 billion of our $300 billion capital return program, including $176 billion in share repurchases against our announced $210 billion buyback program with $34 billion remaining under our current authorization. Turning to taxes. Due to the recently enacted legislation in the U.S., we estimate making a corporate income tax payment of approximately $38 billion to the U.S. government on our cumulative past foreign earnings. This amount is very similar to what we had been accruing on those earnings in our financial results through fiscal year 2017. Including the $38 billion payment, we will have paid over $110 billion of corporate income tax on our total domestic and foreign earnings during the last 10 years for a cash tax rate of about 26%. Our tax rate of 25.8% for the December quarter was close to our guidance of 25.5% as the lower U.S. statutory rate from the new legislation was effectively offset by the remeasurement of deferred tax balances. As we move ahead into the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call; we expect revenue to be between $60 billion and $62 billion; we expect gross margin to be between 38% and 38.5%; we expect OpEx to be between $7.6 billion and $7.7 billion; we expect OI&E to be about $300 million; and we expect the tax rate to be about 15%. Tax reform will allow us to pursue a more optimal capital structure for our company. Our current net cash position is $163 billion. And given the increased financial and operational flexibility from the access to our foreign cash, we are targeting to become approximately net cash neutral over time. We will provide an update to our specific capital allocation plans when we report results for our second fiscal quarter, consistent with the timing of updates that we have provided in the past. Finally, today our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.63 per share of common stock, payable on February 15, 2018, to shareholders of record as of February 12, 2018. With that, I’d like to open the call to questions.

Paxton: Thank you, Luca. And we ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow-up. May we have the first question please?

Cross: And then, Tim, maybe could you talk a little bit more about what you’re hearing from customers in terms of the iPhone demand. How you’re thinking about the potential decay rate, for lack of a better term, with the high-end phones and over $1,000 phone versus balancing that with now your ability to ship phones down below $400, because you’ve expanded the product line so much when you launched your phones in 2017?

Cook: The revenue growth from iPhone across all the geographic segments was in the double-digits. And I think as Luca said earlier, when you change that for an average weekly sales basis, it’s actually 22%. And so it was a stellar quarter for iPhone. The iPhone X was the most popular and that’s particularly noteworthy given that we didn’t start shipping until early November, and we’re constrained for a while. The team did a great job of getting into supply demand balance there in December. But since the launch of iPhone X, it has been the most popular iPhone every week, every week sales. And that is even through today, actually through January. And so we feel fantastic about the results. The most important thing for us is that really the number, it’s customer satisfaction. And customer satisfaction is literally off the charts on iPhone X. We think about the advances in technology that were a part of the iPhone X from -- we went from Touch ID to Face ID; Face ID has been incredibly well received; the wireless charging, the edge to edge super retina display; and totally new gestures, the user experience is different. And so it’s great to get that kind of feedback. If you look at the the overall iPhone line to get to the essence of the question, I think. I looked -- I reviewed the top many markets, I’ll talk briefly about the top four. In Urban China and the U.S., the top five smartphones last quarter were all iPhones. And in Japan and the UK, six of the top seven were iPhones. And so in a market that is as large as the smartphone market is, people want some level of choice and they’re deciding which ones to buy.

Huberty: Growing double-digits of such a large revenue base is impressive in itself. But if I look at March quarter guidance, it does assume a slower average weekly growth in total revenue, as well as, I think on my math, iPhone shipments when you compare it to the December quarter. So just how should we read into a modest slowdown in average weekly growth as it relates to the last question around the decay of demand around the higher priced products? Or any impact that you might be seeing from the lower-priced battery replacements or anything else in the market?

Maestri: We are guiding to $62 billion. It's a strong double-digit growth, 13% to 17%. In context, it's $7 billion to $9 billion above last year. So when you put things in perspective and you add the $10 billion of growth that we had in the first quarter and the $7 billion to $9 billion that we're guiding to for the second quarter, you're talking about $17 billion to $19 billion of growth in six months. This is at the macro level. We typically don't go into this level of detail, but think it's important this quarter to give you additional color. And maybe the two most important messages are that we believe iPhone revenue will grow double digits as compared to last year, during the March quarter. And also and importantly that iPhone sell-through growth on a year-over-year basis will be actually accelerating during the March quarter as compared to the December quarter. Let me explain the factors that we took into consideration as we came up with our iPhone units and ASP that are embedded in our guidance. Historically, because the channel fill and the holiday season, our selling volume during the December quarter is generally higher than sell-through. This year, the difference was further magnified, because we shipped iPhone X in November rather than the September quarter. We had a very successful product ramp. We were able to reach supply/demand balance in December, which placed the entirety of our channel fill for iPhone X in Q1 and this will have an effect on both units and ASP in Q2. Now, for units, there is a second point to consider. We typically reduced channel inventory for our newest iPhones in Q2, because they enjoy very large demand in the initial weeks of sales, which are compounded by the holiday season in Q1. So we anticipate doing that in Q2 this year as well. For ASPs, there's also another element that we need to consider. As you know, our newest products this year have a higher ASP than they had in the past. And so as a result, as we reduce inventories of these newest products, the overall ASPs for iPhone in Q2 will naturally decline sequentially by a higher percentage than we have experienced historically. So in summary, our guidance for iPhone; we got double digit year-over-year growth and acceleration of sell-through growth on a year-over-year basis. For the balance of the Company, in the aggregate, we expect to grow strong double-digits year-over-year and particularly very strong performance in service and in wearables like we’ve seen during the

Huberty: Yes, that's great color. Just a follow-up on gross margin. Guidance for flat gross margin in March is pretty seasonal, but you do have the tailwind from currency. And so if you can just comment on how you think that flows into the model over the next couple of quarters, the weaker dollar. And what your outlook might be around component costs in the near future.

Cook: And just for clarity, let me add one thing. What Luca is saying is not cash equals zero. He's saying there's an equal amount cash and debt, and that they balance to zero.

Inc.: Thank you, Nancy, and to everyone joining us, welcome. We're proud to announce the results of a very successful quarter today, setting new March quarter records for both revenue and earnings. We generated $61.1 billion of revenue. That's up 16% from last year, making it our sixth consecutive quarter of accelerating revenue growth. Our performance was broad-based, with iPhone revenue up 14%, services up 31% and wearables up almost 50%. We grew in each of our geographic segments, and in Greater China and Japan, revenue was up more than 20%. iPhone's second quarter performance capped a tremendous fiscal first half with $100 billion in iPhone revenue, an increase of $12 billion over last year, setting a new first half record and achieving our highest first half growth rate in three years. iPhone gained share during the quarter based on IDC's latest estimates for the global smartphone market. And customers chose iPhone X more than any other iPhone each week in the March quarter, just as they did following its launch in the December quarter. Since we split the line with the launch of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus in 2014, this is the first cycle in which the top of the line iPhone model has also been the most popular. Q2 was our best quarter ever for services and momentum there continues to be incredibly strong. Revenue topped $9 billion for the first time, up more than $2 billion over last year's March quarter. We had all-time record revenue from the App Store, from Apple Music, from iCloud, from Apple Pay and more, all of which are a powerful illustration of the importance of our huge active installed base of devices and the loyalty and engagement of our customers. Across all our services, paid subscriptions surpassed 270 million, up over 100 million from a year ago and up $30 million in the last 90 days alone, contributing to the overall increase in services revenue. Apple Pay continues its strong growth with active users more than doubling and transactions tripling year-over-year. We believe the availability of Apple Pay at major transit systems have been a key driver of adoption among commuters and in March, we launched Express Transit with Apple Pay in Beijing and Shanghai, the second and third largest transit systems in the world. Apple Pay is already the most successful mobile transit payment system in Tokyo, which has the busiest transit system of all. With the launch of Brazil in April, Apple Pay is now available in 21 markets and we expect Norway, Poland and Ukraine to launch in the next several months. This was another outstanding quarter for our wearables business, which includes Apple Watch, Beats and AirPods with combined revenue of almost 50% year-over-year. Looking at its revenue over the last four quarters, our wearables business is now the size of a Fortune 300 company. Apple Watch had another great quarter with revenue growing by strong double digits year-over-year to a new March quarter record. Millions of customers are using Apple Watch to help them stay active, healthy and connected and they have made it the top selling watch in the world. We launched carrier support for Series 3 with cellular in Mainland China, Hong Kong and Thailand during the quarter with more markets on the way. And now with Watch OS 4.2, there are more features than ever before. For example, in addition to tracking your workouts and heart rate, skiers and snowboarders can record runs, see vertical descent and calculate speed, as well as contribute data directly to the Apple Watch activity app. AirPods are incredibly popular and we're seeing them in more and more places, in the gym, in coffee shops, wherever people are enjoying music on their Apple devices. This product is a runaway hit, and we're working hard to meet the incredible demand. We started shipping HomePod in February, and it's widely recognized as having the best audio quality for its size and class. HomePod is a breakthrough speaker that delivers amazing sound, and we believe it will change the way people listen to music at home. It's currently available in the United States, the United Kingdom and Australia, and we're looking forward to adding new features to HomePod and introducing it to more markets around the world soon. In March, we announced new products for the education community, including updating our most popular iPad with support for Apple Pencil. It empowers students to be even more creative and productive, from learning to code to sketching ideas and jotting down handwritten notes to marking up screenshots. And the new iPad's gorgeous retina display, advanced chip and enhanced cameras and sensors are designed to support the next generation of apps for immersive augmented reality experiences in the classroom. In addition to our successful Everyone Can Code initiative, we've launched Everyone Can Create. It's a new free curriculum that makes it fun and easy for teachers to integrate drawing, music, film making or photography into their existing lesson plans for any subject. We believe education is the great equalizer. And whether it's through our coding programs, our unrivaled augmented reality platform, or the creativity both can unleash, we're proud to help students everywhere reach new frontiers of learning with Apple technology. In March, we also released iOS 11.3, a major update offering new immersive augmented reality experiences, access to personal health records in the Health app and more. Apps can now deliver AR experiences that use vertical walls and doors in addition to tables and chairs and can make – more accurately map irregular shaped surfaces. The update to ARKit that made this possible came just six months after we launched the world's largest AR platform. Also in iOS 11.3, patients in nearly 40 health systems representing hundreds of hospitals and clinics can now consolidate their medical records from multiple sources and view them all in one place, right from their iPhone. This data is encrypted and protected with the user's iPhone passcode, and it can help them better understand their health history, have informed conversations with doctors and family members, and make future health care decisions. Consistent with our long-term focus, privacy is a key element of these initiatives for education and personal health. We're relentless about making the best products and experiences in the world, while fiercely protecting our users' privacy, because we believe privacy is a fundamental human right. Our environmental initiatives recently passed an important milestone. All of our global facilities across 43 countries are now powered with 100% clean energy. We work with communities around the world to build clean power sources. Apple now has 25 renewable energy projects operational and 15 more under construction. We're also driving our supply chain to use clean energy. As of last month, 23 of our suppliers are committed to operating on 100% renewable energy. We're now halfway through our fiscal 2018 with nearly $150 billion in revenue and double digit growth in all of our geographic segments. We generated almost $34 billion in earnings in six months, and we're very bullish on Apple's future. We have the best pipeline of products and services we've ever had. We have a huge installed base of active devices that is growing across all products, and we have the highest customer loyalty and satisfaction in the industry. Our services business is growing dramatically. Our balance sheet and our cash flow generation are strong and that allows us to invest significantly in our product roadmap and still return a very meaningful amount of capital to our shareholders. Recent corporate tax reform enables us to deploy our global cash more efficiently. In the United States, we expect our direct investment in the economy to exceed $350 billion over the next five years, including $30 billion in capital expenditures. And we expect to create over 20,000 U.S. jobs at Apple over that timeframe. We're narrowing the site selection for a new U.S. campus, and we look forward to sharing more information on that later this year. Consistent with our annual cadence, today we're providing an update on our capital return program. Tax reform makes it possible for us to execute our program more efficiently, both through share repurchases and payment of dividend to the tens of millions of investors who own Apple stock either directly or indirectly from large pension funds to individuals with retirement accounts. So today, given our strong confidence in Apple's future, we're announcing a significant update to our capital return program. Our Board of Directors has approved a new $100 billion share repurchase authorization as well as a 16% increase in our quarterly dividend, effective with our next dividend payable later this month. Luca will provide more details about our program as well as a more in-depth discussion of the quarter's results. So I'll now turn the call over to him. Luca?

Inc.: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon everyone. We're very pleased to report record financial results for our March quarter with revenue growth of 16%, EPS up 30%. Starting with revenue, we generated $61.1 billion, our highest ever for a March quarter. Revenue grew in all of our geographic segments, setting new Q2 records in most countries we track. Performance was very strong in emerging markets where revenue was up 20% and we were especially pleased to see 21% year-over-year growth in Greater China, our strongest growth rate from that segment in 10 quarters. We also set Q2 revenue records in the Americas, in Europe and in Japan. Gross margin was 38.3%, essentially flat sequentially, as we offset the seasonal loss of leverage with cost improvements and a shift in mix toward services. Operating margin was 26% of revenue. Net income was $13.8 billion, up $2.8 billion over last year and a March quarter record. Diluted earnings per share were $2.73, up 30% to a new record for Q2, and cash flow from operations was very strong at $15.1 billion. iPhone revenue grew 14% year-over-year, with iPhone ASP increasing to $728 from $655 a year ago, driven primarily by the performance of iPhone X, iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus. During the quarter we sold 52.2 million iPhones, up 3% over last year, and we grew iPhone units by double digits in several markets including Japan, Canada, Switzerland, Turkey, Central and Eastern Europe, Mexico and Vietnam. Our performance from a customer demand standpoint was even stronger than our reported results, as we reduced iPhone channel inventory by 1.8 million units, 600,000 units more than the March quarter reduction last year. We exited the March quarter within our target range of five to seven weeks of iPhone channel inventory. Our customers are extremely happy with their iPhones. The latest survey of U.S. consumers from 451 Research indicates that across all iPhone models, the customer satisfaction rating was 95%, and combining iPhone 8, 8 Plus and iPhone X, customer satisfaction was even higher, at 99%. And among business buyers who plan to purchase smartphones in the June quarter, 78% plan to purchase iPhones. Turning to services. We had a sensational quarter with all-time record revenue of $9.2 billion, and that's up more than $2 billion from last year, an increase of 31% and double the services revenue we generated in the March quarter just four years ago. Our services business is growing at a very fast pace all around the world, with revenue up more than 25% year-over-year in each of our five geographic segments. The App Store set a new all-time revenue record in the March quarter and Apple Music reached a new record for both revenue and paid subscribers, which have now passed 40 million. iCloud storage revenue was up by over 50% year-over-year to a new all-time record, and AppleCare revenue grew at its highest rate in five quarters, setting a new March quarter record. Our other product category also set a new record for the March quarter with revenue of almost $4 billion. We began shipping HomePod in February and unit sales of both Apple Watch and AirPods reached a new high for the March quarter. When we combine all our wearables and home products, they accounted for over 90% of the total growth in the other products category. Next, I'd like to talk about the Mac which set a new March quarter revenue record including new records in both the Americas and Greater China. We sold 4.1 million Macs, generating year-over-year growth in many emerging markets including Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, Central and Eastern Europe and India. We were happy to see double digit growth in our active installed base of Macs to a new all-time high, with almost 60% of March quarter purchases coming from customers who are new to Mac. iPad grew both units and revenue for the fourth consecutive quarter. We sold 9.1 million iPads and about half of purchases were by customers new to iPad. Growth was particularly strong in Japan, in Latin America, Middle East and Africa and Central and Eastern Europe. All markets where iPad sales were up double digits compared to a year ago. We gained share of the global tablet market based on the latest estimates from IDC and our active installed base of iPads reached an all-time high. NPD indicates that iPad has 53% of the U.S. tablet market in the March quarter, up from 40% share a year ago. And the most recent customer survey from 451 Research measured iPad customer satisfaction ratings of 95% and among business customers who plan to purchase tablets in the June quarter, 73% plan to purchase iPads. We continue to make great strides in the enterprise market. In February, we announced a new cyber risk management solution for businesses with Cisco, Aon and Allianz. This combined approach is an industry first that integrates the most secure technology from Apple and Cisco, cyber resilience evaluation services from Aon and options for enhanced cyber insurance coverage from Allianz. Organizations will now be able to better manage and protect themselves from cyber risks associated with ransomware and other malware-related threats. We are thrilled that insurance industry leaders recognize that Apple products provide superior security. In March, we announced two new services with IBM to bring more dynamic and intelligent insights into apps. IBM Watson services for Core ML and IBM Cloud Developer Console for Apple will enable developers to more easily build native iOS apps that bring together machine learning with artificial intelligence and cloud services. In healthcare, iPhones are being used across leading health systems including Cedars-Sinai, the Mayo Clinic and HCA Healthcare with iOS apps to support clinical workflows, communications and care delivery. In fact, HCA Healthcare recently announced they plan to deploy 100,000 iPhones across their hospital sites within the next three years. We had great performance from our retail and online stores which produced their highest March quarter revenue ever. Year-over-year growth was led by iPhone as well as strong performance from AirPods and introduction of HomePod. Our stores hosted more than 250,000 of our very popular Today at Apple sessions with a particular emphasis on coding and app design. During the quarter, we opened beautiful new stores in South Korea and in Austria, our first in both countries, and three weeks ago we opened our newest store in Tokyo, bringing us to 502 stores across the world today. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $267.2 billion in cash plus marketable securities, and we had $110 billion in term debt and $12 billion in commercial paper outstanding for a net cash position of $145 billion. We returned nearly $27 billion to investors during the quarter. We paid $3.2 billion in dividends and equivalents and spent $23.5 billion on repurchases of 137 million Apple shares through open market transactions. We also retired 5.7 million shares upon the completion of our 13 ASR during the quarter. We have now completed over $275 billion of our current $300 billion capital return program, including $200 billion in share repurchases against our cumulative $210 million buyback program. We will complete the $210 billion program during the June quarter, three full quarters sooner than initially planned. The biggest priorities for our cash have not changed over the years. We want to maintain the cash we need to fund our day-to-day operations, to invest in our future, and to provide flexibility so that we can respond effectively to the strategic opportunities we encounter along the way. As we said 90 days ago, the new tax legislation enacted in December gives us increased financial and operational flexibility from the access to our global cash. It allows us to invest for growth in the United States more efficiently and it also provides us the opportunity to work towards a more optimal capital structure. As we said in February, our goal is to become approximately net cash neutral over time. Given our strong confidence in Apple's future and the value that we see in our stock, our board has authorized a new $100 billion share repurchase program which we will start executing during the June quarter. Considering the unprecedented size of this new authorization, we want to be particularly thoughtful and flexible in our approach to repurchasing shares. Our intention is to execute our program efficiently and at a fast pace. As in the past, we will provide regular updates on our capital return activities at the end of every quarter. We're also raising our dividend for the sixth time in less than six years. As we know, it is very important for our investors who value income. The quarterly dividend will grow from $0.63 to $0.73 per share, an increase of 16%. This is effective with our next dividend which the board has declared today, payable on May 17, 2018, to shareholders of record as of May 14, 2018. With over $13 billion in annual dividend payments, we are proud to be among the largest dividend payers in the world and we continue to plan for annual dividend increases going forward. We will continue to review our capital allocation regularly, taking into account the needs of our business, our investment opportunities, and our financial outlook. We will also continue to solicit input on our program from a broad base of shareholders. This approach will allow us to be flexible and thoughtful about the size, the mix and the pace of our program. We expect to provide a new update to our capital allocation plans approximately 12 months from now. As we move ahead into the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $51.5 billion and $53.5 billion. We expect gross margin to be between 38% and 38.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $7.7 billion and $7.8 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $400 million. And we expect our tax rate to be about 14.5%.

Inc.: Thank you, Luca. And we ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow up. May we have the first question, please?

Inc.: Sure. Shannon, it's Tim. As Luca mentioned earlier, our revenues are up 14% year-over-year on iPhone and that's a combination of single digit unit growth and ASP growth that is mainly driven by iPhone X. I think that our iPhone line shows that there's a variety of different customers in a market that is as large as a smartphone market and so we're going to continue to provide different iPhones for folks to meet their needs. On iPhone X specifically, I think it's important to maybe emphasize again one of the things I mentioned in my opening comments, that customers chose iPhone X more than any other iPhone each and every week in the March quarter, just as they did following its launch in the December quarter. Also, since we split the line with the launch of iPhone 6 and 6 Plus back in 2014, this is the first cycle that we've ever had where the top of the line iPhone model has also been the most popular. And so with the customer set that Luca referenced as well, the 99%, the iPhone X is a beloved product. And so I think that it's one of those things where like a team wins the Super Bowl, maybe you want them to win by a few more points but it's a Super Bowl winner and that's how we feel about it.

C: Okay. Thank you. And then, Luca, can you talk a bit about working capital, specifically inventory which went up pretty significantly quarter-over-quarter? What's driving that and how are you thinking about, I mean, it's one of the uses of cash obviously, so how are you thinking about inventory and maybe working capital in general as you're going forward?

Inc.: Yeah, Shannon, you know that we've always generated significant amount of cash through working capital. We've got a negative cash conversion cycle and we plan to continue to have that. Our inventory level has gone up. It's just a temporary event. We have decided to make some purchasing decision, given current market conditions, and that should unwind over time.

C: Thank you. Good afternoon. The services growth acceleration is really the highlight this quarter in my mind. Can you talk about what the biggest drivers, whether it be products or regions that drove the acceleration and do you think that we can continue to see growth north of 30%?

Inc.: Jim, on the gross margin side, I think I'll repeat what I said earlier, but you're right. Our services business, and I've said it in the past, is accretive to company margins. And so as we are able to grow the services business, that should provide a positive, a tailwind. At the same time, within the services portfolio that we have, we have services that have different levels of profitability, so we also need to take into account the mix of services that we're going to be selling. At a macro level, because about two-thirds of our company is outside the United States, a weak dollar is a positive for our gross margins; a strong dollar, as it's been during the last four years, has been a bit of a headwind for the company. We try to make it more stable through the hedging program. And in general, when we look at our process to innovate our products, typically when we launch a new product, that product tends to have a higher cost structure than the product it replaces. And so that is something that we need to work through every time we launch a new product and we have a pretty good track record and history of taking those cost structures down over time. So we need to balance all these different elements. I think we've done a pretty remarkable job during the last several years at managing all these different variables and coming out with a level of gross margins that we think is really good for investors and certainly it is our plan to continue to manage them that way. But it's very difficult for me to give you a prediction of where gross margins are going to be six months or 12 months from now.

Inc.: Thank you, Nancy, and thanks to everyone for joining us. Today we're proud to report our best June quarter revenue and earnings ever thanks to the strong performance of iPhone, services and wearables. We generated $53.3 billion in revenue, a new Q3 record. That's an increase of 17% over last year's result, making it our seventh consecutive quarter of accelerating growth, our fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth and our strongest rate of growth in the past 11 quarters. Our team generated record Q3 earnings per share of $2.34, an increase of 40% over last year. We're extremely proud of these results and I'd like to share some highlights with you. First, iPhone had a very strong quarter. Revenue was up 20% year-over-year and our active installed base grew by double-digits, driven by switchers, first time smartphone buyers and our existing customers whose loyalty we greatly appreciate. iPhone X was the most popular iPhone in the quarter once again, with a customer satisfaction score of 98% according to 451 Research. Based on the latest data from IDC, iPhone grew faster than the global smartphone market, gaining share in many markets including the U.S., Greater China, Canada, Germany, Australia, Russia, Mexico and the Middle East and Africa. Second, we had a stellar quarter in services which generated all-time record revenue of $9.5 billion fueled in part by double-digit growth in our overall active installed base. We feel great about the momentum of our services business and we're on target to reach our goal of doubling our fiscal 2016 services revenue by 2020. Our record services results were driven by strong performance in a number of areas and I'd like to briefly mention just some of these. Paid subscriptions from Apple and third parties have now surpassed $300 million, an increase of more than 60% in the past year alone. Revenue from subscriptions accounts for a significant and increasing percentage of our overall services business. What's more, the number of apps offering subscriptions also continue to grow. There are almost 30,000 available in the App Store today. The App Store turned 10 years old this month and we set a new June quarter revenue record. The App Store has exceeded our wildest expectations, igniting a cultural and economic phenomenon that has changed how people work, learn and play. Customers around the world are visiting the App Store more often and downloading more apps than ever before. And based on third party research estimates, the App Store generated nearly twice the revenue of Google Play so far in 2018. The app economy is thriving and thanks to the App Store, it's generating jobs for tens of millions of people around the world. Our developers have earned over $100 billion from the App Store since its launch and we couldn't be more proud of them and what they've accomplished. We're hearing lots of developer excitement around our upcoming OS releases, which I'll talk about more in a moment, and can't wait to see what they can come up with next. We've experienced rapid growth in our App Store search ad service and as we announced earlier this month, we are expanding our geographic coverage to Japan, South Korea, France, Germany, Italy and Spain. We're also seeing strong growth in many of the other services as well. Just a few examples, Apple Music grew by over 50% on a year-over-year basis. AppleCare revenue grew at its highest rate in 18 quarters, partly due to our expanded distribution initiative. Cloud services revenue was also up over 50% year-over-year. Our communications services are experiencing record usage. We've hit all-time highs for both the number of monthly active users of Messages and the number of FaceTime calls made with growth accelerating from the March to June quarters. Siri requests have already exceeded 100 billion so far this fiscal year, and the number of articles read on Apple News more than doubled year-over-year. Apple Pay continues to expand with well over 1 billion transactions last quarter, triple the amount from just a year ago, with growth accelerating from the March quarter. To put that tremendous growth into perspective, this past quarter, we completed more total transactions than great companies like Square and more mobile transactions than PayPal. Apple Pay is now live in 24 markets worldwide with over 4,900 bank partners and we look forward to adding Germany later this year. We're excited to share that in the U.S., eBay is beginning to enable its sellers to accept Apple Pay and CVS Pharmacy and 7-Eleven will roll out Apple Pay acceptance in locations nationwide this fall. Transit is another important area of growth and Apple Pay can be used with iPhone and Apple Watch to quickly and conveniently ride public transit in 12 metropolitan areas. Apple Pay Cash, our peer-to-peer payment service, is already serving millions of customers across the U.S. less than eight months following its launch. Our third highlight of the quarter is the outstanding results in wearables which comprises Apple Watch, AirPods and Beats and was up over 60% year-over-year with growth accelerating from the March quarter. Our wearables revenue exceeded $10 billion over the last four quarters, a truly remarkable accomplishment for a set of products that has only been in the market for a few years. Apple Watch delivered record June quarter performance with growth in the mid 40% range, and we're thrilled to see so many customers enjoying AirPods. It reminds me of the early days of iPod when I started noticing white earbuds everywhere I went. A number of other notable events in the quarter, we expanded distribution of HomePod to three additional markets and we added new immersive listening features with support for HomePod stereo pairs and a new multi-room audio system. In June, we hosted an extremely successful developers' conference that previewed many major advances coming this fall to our four operating systems, iOS, macOS, watchOS and tvOS. Developer and customer reaction has been very positive and we have over 4 million users participating in our new OS beta programs. Starting with iOS 12, Siri will take a major step forward with Siri Shortcuts, which deliver a new, much faster way to get things done and allow any app to work with Siri. We believe this will make Siri even more useful and significantly expand its adoption. We've also designed performance improvements across iOS 12 to make everyday tasks faster and more responsive. Camera launches up to 70% faster. The keyboard appears up to 50% faster and apps can launch up to twice as fast. We've always been about empowering users to get the most from our product, but not about spending all of their time using them and so we're adding tools to iOS 12 to help our customers understand and take control of the time both they and their families spend interacting with their iOS devices. Activity reports will provide information on the amount and nature of time spent on iPhones and iPads and screen time will enable parents to monitor and limit their children's activity from their own iOS devices using Family Sharing in iCloud. Developers will be able to build even more intelligent apps with just a few lines of code using the power of machine learning with Core ML 2 and Create ML. We've also included our third release of ARKit in only one year. With ARKit 2, iOS 12 will provide an even more powerful platform to make dynamic AR apps, integrating shared and persistent AR experiences, object detection and image tracking. We believe AR can enable profound experiences and Apple is uniquely positioned to provide the best AR experience because of the seamless integration of our hardware and software. The new capabilities of ARKit 2 will build on the potential of the thousands of AR apps already available in the App Store that are changing the way iPhone and iPad users see and experience the world. Turning to Mac, we want to empower our developers to bring their innovative apps from the iOS ecosystem to the Mac with minimal effort. Though iOS and macOS are different, they've shared common foundations from the very beginning, so we've taken key frameworks from iOS and adapted them to specific Mac behaviors like using a mouse or track pad, resizing windows, copy and paste and drag and drop. We've started with some of our own apps, so this fall, News, Stocks, Voice Memos and Home will be available on the Mac for the first time with macOS Mojave and we'll be bringing these great new tools to our developers next year. We believe this will dramatically broaden the ecosystem to benefit all Mac users, creating even more great reasons to choose Mac. Also this fall, the Mac App Store is getting a full redesign with rich editorial content to help customers discover great Mac apps from our developers. We believe privacy is one of the most important issues of the 21st century and we're always working to make our products more private and more secure for our users. As we announced at WWDC, beginning this fall, Safari will prevent share buttons and comment widgets on webpages from tracking users without their permission. Safari already protects personal data as users browse the web so they won't be re-targeted by ads. For Apple Watch, users will see a significant expansion of features and functionality in watchOS 5. Apple Watch will become an even stronger companion for fitness, communication and quick access to information with features including new workouts, activity sharing competitions, auto workout detection, advanced running features, walkie-talkie, podcast and third party apps on the Siri watch face. For Apple TV, we've seen major growth in sales since the introduction of Apple TV 4K last fall as video providers around the world choose Apple TV 4K to deliver their subscription services. Later this year, Charter Communications will begin offering Apple TV 4K to its customers in nearly 50 million U.S. households, providing access to live channels and tens of thousands of on-demand programs via the Spectrum TV app on Apple TV 4K, iPhone and iPad. And tvOS will take the cinematic experience of Apple TV 4K to the next level this fall with support for Dolby Atmos audio and new features to easily find popular shows and movies. Apple TV 4K already offers customers the largest collection of 4K HDR movies and this fall, iTunes will be the home to the largest collection of Dolby Atmos-supported movies anywhere. I'm proud that our team's hard work has an impact even beyond these innovative industry-leading products and services. We're always working to leave the world better than we found it and as part of our commitment to address climate change and increase the use of renewable energy in our supply chain, we recently announced a first of its kind investment fund in China. Initially, 10 suppliers will join us in investing nearly $300 million over the next four years into the China Clean Energy Fund. The fund will invest in and develop clean energy projects totaling more than 1 gigawatt of renewable energy in China, the equivalent of powering nearly 1 million homes. We're seeing great momentum in our Everyone Can Code and Everyone Can Create initiatives. More than 5,000 schools and community colleges are now teaching Everyone Can Code and more than 350 schools have committed to incorporating Everyone Can Create into their curricula for the upcoming school year. Coding skills are opening doors for students and job seekers around the world as tremendous growth in the app economy creates opportunity everywhere we look. We're also teaming up with leading educators for blind and deaf communities across the United States who will start teaching Everyone Can Code this Fall. Looking ahead, we couldn't be more excited about the products and services in our pipeline as well as limitless applications for augmented reality and machine learning technology. We're working with key partners in the enterprise to change the way work gets done with iOS and Mac. We're welcoming communities and offering learning opportunities at our retail locations through hundreds of thousands of Today at Apple sessions each quarter. We're expanding our reach into emerging markets and seeing strong double-digit growth in revenue and we're making great progress toward our goal of significantly expanding our services business. And now, for more details on the record June quarter results,

Inc.: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon everyone. We're very pleased to report the financial results of our best June quarter ever. As we have done in every quarter this fiscal year, we set new quarterly records for both revenue and earnings per share, with revenue up 17% year-over-year and EPS up 40%. We generated $53.3 billion of revenue with year-over-year growth in all of our geographic segments and new June quarter records in the Americas, Europe, Japan and rest of Asia Pacific. We grew in each of our top 15 markets, with especially strong performance in the U.S., Hong Kong, Russia, Mexico, the Middle East and Africa, all places where revenue was up by more than 20%. Gross margin was 38.3%, flat sequentially, as cost improvements and foreign exchange offset the seasonal loss of leverage. Net income was $11.5 billion, up $2.8 billion or 32% over last year and it was also a new June quarter record. Diluted earnings per share were $2.34, up 40% and also a new record for the June quarter and cash flow from operations was very strong at $14.5 billion. iPhone revenue grew 20% year-over-year with iPhone ASP increasing to $724 from $606 a year ago, driven by the strong performance of iPhone X, iPhone 8, iPhone 8 Plus across the world. During the quarter, we sold 41.3 million iPhones, with double-digit unit growth in several markets including the U.S., Canada, Germany, Switzerland, Mexico, Hong Kong, Russia, the Middle East and Africa. Our performance from a customer demand standpoint was stronger than our reported results as we reduced iPhone channel inventory by 3.5 million units during the quarter. We exited the June quarter towards the lower end of our target range of 5 to 7 weeks of iPhone channel inventory. Customer satisfaction with iPhone continues to be outstanding and is the highest in the industry. The latest survey of U.S. consumers from 451 Research indicates that across all iPhone models, customer satisfaction was 96% and combining iPhone 8, 8 Plus and iPhone X, it was even higher at 98%. And among business buyers who plan to purchase smartphones in the September quarter, 81% plan to purchase iPhones, up 3 points from the last survey. Turning to services, we had our best results ever with all-time record revenue of $9.5 billion. Services revenue included a favorable $236 million one-time item in connection with the final resolution of various lawsuits. Excluding this amount, services revenue was still an all-time record and the underlying growth rate of our services business was a terrific 28% over last year. We generated double-digit services growth in all our geographic segments and the App Store, AppleCare, Apple Music, cloud services and Apple Pay all set new June quarter records. Our other product category also set a new record for the June quarter with revenue of over $3.7 billion. That's up 37% from last year with great sales momentum for both Apple Watch and AirPods. Apple Watch continues to be the best selling smartwatch by a wide margin and units and revenue grew dramatically during the quarter. AirPods continue to be a runaway success and we've been selling them as fast as we can make them since their launch a year and a half ago. Next, I'd like to talk about the Mac. We were very happy to see double digit year-over-year growth in our active installed base of Macs to a new all-time high with nearly 60% of purchases during the quarter coming from customers who are new to Mac. Our year-over-year sales performance was impacted by the different timing of the MacBook Pro launch which did not occur until early Q4 this year as opposed to June last year, with the subsequent channel fill during the June quarter. Even with a difficult launch comparison, we saw great momentum in many emerging markets, with growth well into double digits and we established new June quarter records for Mac sales in India, Turkey, Chile and Central and Eastern Europe. iPad unit sales grew for the fifth consecutive quarter and we gained significant share of the global tablet market based on the latest estimates from IDC. We recorded double digit iPad unit growth in both our Greater China and rest of Asia Pacific segments with a new June quarter record for iPad sales in Mainland China. Almost half of iPad purchases in the quarter were by customers new to iPad and our active installed base of iPads reached a new all-time high. Our overall performance compared to last year was impacted by the introduction of new iPad Pro models in June of last year which resulted in both a different mix with higher ASPs and channel sale a year ago. NPD indicates that iPad has 60% share of the U.S. tablet market in the June quarter, up from 51% share a year ago. And the most recent consumer survey from 451 Research measured iPad customer satisfaction ratings of 94%, and among business customers who plan to purchase tablets in the September quarter, 75% plan to purchase iPads. We continue to make great strides with enterprise customers across multiple industries. For example, financial services institutions are increasingly using iPads to deploy digital signature solutions for customer consent, compliance requirements, new account openings and services transactions. In the railway industry, businesses around the world are using iPhone and iPad to support operations, training, passenger engagement and maintenance activities. And leading global automotive companies are deploying iPads in dealerships for sales enablement and end-to-end customer service management and are choosing iPhone as the standard mobile device for their employees around the world. More and more companies are giving their teams a choice when it comes to the devices they use at work and enterprises including Salesforce and Capital One are deploying Macs based on employee preference. In fact, at Salesforce, the majority of their 35,000 employees are using Macs and companies tell us that Mac has been instrumental in helping them attract and retain talent while providing strong security, streamlined deployment, workflow and significantly lower total cost of ownership. We're also seeing great interest in Business Chat, our powerful new way for organizations to connect with customers. Business Chat lets customers get answers to questions, resolve issues and complete transactions directly from within Messages by starting a conversation on their iPhone or iPad and even continue the conversation on their Mac or Apple Watch. DISH Network is making Business Chat available to customers across the U.S. to enhance the customer service experience for pay TV. Customers can instantly reach a live agent with their questions, make account changes, schedule an appointment, or order a pay-per-view movie or sporting event, all without leaving the Messages conversation. And Citizens Bank Park, home of the Philadelphia Phillies, is testing Business Chat with Aramark to handle beverage holders during games. Fans simply use their iPhone camera to scan a QR code on the back of their seats taking them directly to a Business Chat conversation in Messages. From there, they can order drinks, pay quickly and securely with Apple Pay and have them delivered directly to their seats without missing a moment of on-field play. Our retail and online stores had a great quarter thanks to very strong growth from iPhone, AirPods and Apple Watch and the expansion of HomePod to Canada, France and Germany. Our stores hosted more than 250,000 of our very successful Today at Apple sessions. We continue to add content across all Today at Apple topics including popular new sessions on music and photography. We opened our 50th retail store in Greater China during the quarter and we just opened a beautiful new store in Milan this month, bringing the number of stores located outside the U.S. to 46% of the total. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $243.7 billion in cash plus marketable securities. We retired $6 billion of debt during the quarter, leaving us with $102.6 billion in term debt and $12 billion in commercial paper outstanding for a net cash position of $129.1 billion. As we explained in February, we plan to reach a net cash neutral position over time. We returned almost $25 billion to investors during the quarter, including $3.7 billion in dividends and equivalents. We repurchased $20 billion worth of Apple shares of which $10 billion related to the completion of our previous $210 billion buyback program and $10 billion to the beginning of the new $100 billion authorization we announced three months ago for a total of 112.8 million shares repurchased through open market transactions during the quarter. As we move ahead into the September quarter, I'd like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $60 billion and $62 billion. As you will recall, our September quarter results last year included a one-time favorable adjustment of $640 million to our services revenue. Taking that adjustment into account, our revenue guidance implies year-over-year growth of about 16% to 19%. We expect gross margin to be between 38% and 38.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $7.95 billion and $8.05 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $300 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 15% before discrete items. Also today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.73 per share of common stock payable on August 16, 2018 to shareholders of record as of August 13, 2018.

Inc.: Thank you, Luca. And we ask that you limit yourself to one one-part question and one follow-up. Operator may we have the first question, please?

Inc.: So the Apple Watch led them to the iPhone. The reverse of that is also true, is that somebody got the iPhone and then decided I really want something to coach me in fitness and to curate some of the communications and so forth like the watch does so well and so it's not always a linear path. I see these things as being somewhat fluid and different for each user.

Inc.: Thank you, Nancy. Good afternoon everyone, and thanks for joining us. I just got back from Brooklyn, where we marked our fourth major launch event of the year. In addition to being a great time, it put an exclamation point at the end of a remarkable fiscal 2018. This year, we shipped our 2 billionth iOS device, celebrated the 10th anniversary of the App Store, and achieved the strongest revenue and earnings in Apple's history. In fiscal year 2018, our revenue grew by $36.4 billion. That's the equivalent of a Fortune 100 company in a single year, and we're capping all that off with our best September quarter ever. Revenue was $62.9 billion, ahead of our expectations. That's an increase of 20% over last year and our highest growth rate in three years. We also generated record Q4 earnings with 41% year-over-year growth in EPS. Record results from iPhone, services, and wearables drove our momentum and we produced strong double-digit revenue growth in all of our geographic segments. It was a big year and a big quarter for iPhone. Q4 revenue was up 29% over last year, an increase of over $8 billion to a new September quarter record fueled by continued momentum for iPhone 8, 8 Plus and X, and the very successful launch of iPhone XS and iPhone XS Max. These latest devices are our most advanced iPhones ever with the industry's first 7-nanometer A12 Bionic chip with an Apple designed 8-core Neural Engine capable of executing an astounding 5 trillion operations per second. The A12 Bionic is many years in the making and a huge technological leap forward. It sets the iPhone experience far apart from the competition, using real-time machine learning to transform the way we experience photos, gaming, augmented reality and more. It makes full use of the dual camera system that shoots portrait mode photos with Smart HDR and dynamic depth of field and Face ID is even faster. The response has been powerful. As one reviewer put it, iPhone XS and XS Max are the perfect blend of design and craftsmanship, as well as seamlessly intuitive user experience. We're not done yet. Just last week, we began shipping iPhone XR, bringing the latest iPhone breakthroughs to even more users. With an all-screen glass and aluminum design and the most advanced LCD in a smartphone, the product reviews have been overwhelmingly positive. iOS 12 has gotten off to an incredible start. It's been installed on more systems in its first month than any version of iOS ever. iOS 12 is delivering system-wide performance enhancements, Siri Shortcuts, and new tools to help people reduce interruptions and manage screen time for themselves and their kids. Siri Shortcuts in particular is already deeply integrated with some of the most popular apps out there. Whether you're tracking your workouts or rushing to catch a flight, you can be sure all of your most relevant apps are working together with Siri in the driver seat. iOS 12 also features ARKit 2, a major upgrade to our augmented reality engine. ARKit 2 makes possible simultaneous multi-user experiences and real-world object incorporation. Our developer community is really running with this technology. From gaming to shopping, we're seeing great new use cases emerge. iOS devices deliver the best AR experiences of any products in the market today and with the announcement of our new iPad Pro this week, we've made that gap even wider. More powerful than the vast majority of PC laptops, the new iPad Pro is unrivalled in its versatility and performance. When paired with the beautifully refined Apple Pencil and a new streamlined full-size Smart Keyboard, iPad Pro will extend its lead as the ultimate creativity and productivity device. And finally, just this week, we delivered the highly anticipated Group FaceTime functionality to all FaceTime-enabled devices. For services, it was our best quarter ever with revenue at $10 billion. Excluding the impact of a favorable one-time accounting adjustment of $640 million a year ago, our services growth was 27%. We set new Q4 records in all of our geographic segments and new all-time revenue records for the App Store, cloud services, AppleCare, Apple Music and Apple Pay. We also continued to see strong growth in paid subscriptions reaching over 330 million in our ecosystem. I want to spotlight the exceptional performance at Apple Pay, which is by far the number one mobile contactless payment service worldwide. Transaction volume tripled year-over-year. And to put that into perspective, Apple Pay generated significantly more transactions than even PayPal Mobile with over 4 times the growth rate. As a testament to accelerating U.S. growth, Costco completed the rollout of Apple Pay to over 500 U.S. warehouses last quarter, while Neiman Marcus is now accepting Apple Pay at over 40 stores across the country. With these additions, 71 of the top 100 merchants and 60% of all U.S. retail locations support Apple Pay. We continue to invest in our strategy to replace the wallet with the recent launch of student ID passes at several major U.S. universities. And 10 months following its launch, Apple Pay Cash is the highest-rated mobile peer-to-peer service by Consumer Reports, based on exceptional payment authentication and data privacy. We set an all-time quarterly record for Mac revenue, thanks to strong performance in MacBook Pro and the impact of the back-to-school season. In September, we delivered macOS Mojave, bringing powerful new features to Mac like Dark Mode, Stacks and a completely redesigned Mac App Store. Consider alongside the release of iOS 12, WatchOS 5 and a new tvOS, macOS Mojave tells a powerful story of the seamless integration of world-class hardware, software and services that define the Apple ecosystem. As I mentioned at the beginning of the call, earlier this week we announced exciting updates to the Mac lineup. The all-new MacBook Air brings a stunning Retina display, Touch ID, the latest processors and an even more portable design to the world's most beloved notebook. We also unveiled the biggest update ever to Mac mini, the small yet muscular desktop that powers everything from the music and sound effects at Broadway shows to the developers who build some of the most popular apps in the App Store. The new Mac mini boasts an amazing 5 times faster performance than before. With revenue growth over 50%, it was another record quarter for wearables, which includes Apple Watch, AirPods and Beats products. With the highest customer satisfaction in the industry, Apple Watch has become an essential part of people's lives. The customer response to the Apple Watch Series 4 has been overwhelmingly positive, driven by its all-new design, larger display, faster performance, fall detection, enhanced cellular reception and electrical heart sensor. Later this year, the ECG App will be available to Apple Watch Series 4 customers in the U.S., giving them the ability to take an electrocardiogram any time, right from their wrist. And for U.S. customers with Apple Watch Series 1 and later, WatchOS will soon enable periodic checks for irregular heart rhythms that may be suggestive of AFib. These are unprecedented and potentially life-changing features, showing how Apple Watch is not only an indispensable communication and fitness companion but also an intelligent guardian for your health. More broadly, we see this as just one further example of the kind of contribution we can make in the health space and we look forward to making more in the future. We are proud to bring HomePod to new customers. I was in Spain last week as HomePod became available there and in Mexico. HomePod delivers the highest fidelity audio quality, working together with an Apple Music subscription to stream over 50 million songs into any room of your home. Our retail team posted record Q4 results to conclude their biggest year ever. They are transforming our stores into places where customers come to connect, learn, and be inspired together with people from their community. Our Today at Apple sessions are a terrific example of what that looks like in practice. We hosted over 250,000 Today at Apple sessions this quarter, connecting aspiring creators with local photographers, illustrators, and other experts who can help them get the most out of their devices. Apple Stores also hosted 74,000 kids at Apple Camp. The relationship Apple has with our customers is about more than just making a purchase. With the recent addition of beautiful new stores in Italy, Japan, China, and in just a few weeks, Thailand, we will have 506 stores where we can further those relationships, almost half of which are outside the United States. Before I turn the call over to Luca, I'd like to touch on two items that may not show up in our financial statement but are just as integral to Apple's mission and our commitment to making the world a better place. First education, more than 5,000 schools, community colleges, and technical colleges worldwide are now using Everyone Can Code, our free coding curriculum. Ideas, creativity, and passion for technology's potential aren't limited by zip code or country, and we don't think opportunity should be either. We're also excited that educators in more than 350 schools around the world have started working with Everyone Can Create, the free collection of tools and project guides we introduced this spring, designed to help unleash kids' creativity throughout their school day with the help of iPad. Next is the environment. This was a milestone year for Apple's commitment to our planet. In April, we announced that 100% of our global operations are powered by renewable energy. We also made progress in doing the same in our supply chain. And just this week, we announced that the enclosures of new products like MacBook Air and iPad Pro will be made from 100% recycled aluminum, a strong, durable, and beautiful new alloy designed by Apple. This is a great example of how a commitment to do right on the issues that matter can drive once unimaginable innovation, new ways of approaching old problems, and beautiful solutions that set us apart. I'd like to thank all of our employees, customers, developers, and business partners for helping us deliver outstanding results across our fiscal 2018. We are headed into the holidays with our strongest product lineup ever, and we could not be more bullish about Apple's future. And now, Luca has more details to share with you on the September quarter. Luca?

Inc.: Thank you, Luca, and we'd like to ask that you limit yourself to two questions. Operator, may we have the first question please?

Inc.: Mike, in terms of your question on AR, I have a different view than you do on this one. Just a year ago, practically a year ago, we came out with ARKit 1. Six months or so after that we came out with 1.5. We then recently came out with ARKit 2. The number of things that you can do are growing significantly. The number of developers that either have done something, or even more the case, that are working on things that I've seen are growing tremendously. There's a lot of interest out there and the number of categories that I'm seeing from gaming to shopping, to I was in China a few weeks ago and saw AR in an art sense, in an art exhibit. I was in Berlin last week and saw it being used in a historical educational kind of sense. I'm seeing it sort of everywhere I go now, and so I think we are in the early days, and it'll keep getting better and better, but

C: Thank you. Tim, given the current trade negotiations and broader geopolitical risk, do you have any plans to consider diversifying the supply chain? And if you were to do that, either on your own or sort of forced, do you think it would have significant impact on the business or profitability?

Inc.: Katy, if you look at the products that we have created and are manufacturing, they're really manufactured everywhere. We have significant content from the U.S. market. We have content from Japan to Korea to many countries, and we have great content from China as well, and so there are many hands in the products. The vast majority or almost all of the R&D is in the United States, as well as a lot of the support organizations. And so, I think that that basic model where you look around the world and find the best in different areas, I don't expect that model to go out of style, so to speak. I think there's a reason why things have developed in that way and I think it's great for all countries and citizens of countries that are involved in that. And I'm still of the mindset that I feel very optimistic and positive that the discussions that are going will be fruitful. These relationships, these trade relationships are big and complex, and they clearly do need a level of focus and a level of updating and modernization. And so I'm optimistic that the countries, the U.S. and China and the U.S. and Europe and so forth, can work these things out and work for the benefit of everyone.

Inc.: Let me give you the puts and takes, Katy. You're correct. We are going to be getting some benefits from commodities in general and memory in particular. Memory on a sequential basis is about 30 basis points favorable for us going into the December quarter. And obviously, we're going to be benefiting from the leverage, which is typical of our seasonality in the December quarter. On the other hand, as I mentioned before, currencies have weakened against the U.S. dollar, and the impact that we expect at the gross margin level from foreign exchange is a 90 basis points headwind sequentially. And of course, at this point in the cycle, we also have higher cost structures because, as I said, we've launched so many new products in the last six weeks. So those are the puts and takes, leverage and commodity savings on one side and

Inc.: Thank you very much, a question for Tim and a question for Luca, and I'll ask them at the same time, so you can decide who wants to go first or second. But operationally, Tim, I think your company is at a disadvantage relative to others in India, giving where items are produced versus shipped versus taxed versus installed as well as ability to own stores. So can you help us address that? Is India going to potentially be a big area, as I think you got about only about 1% market share, but it sounded like things may be softer there? And then for Luca, there will probably be a lot of pushback about not giving iPhone unit data. It sounds like you're still going to give revenue data, if I heard that correctly, but some people may fear that this now means that the iPhone units are going to start going negative year over year because it's easier to talk about great things and not show the details of things that aren't so great.

Inc.: Okay, I'll start with India. We've had really great productive discussions with the Indian government, and I fully expect that at some point, they will agree to allow us to bring our stores into the country. We've been in discussions with them, and the discussions are going quite well. As you point out, there are import duties in some or most of the product categories that we're in. In some cases, they compound, and this is an area that we're giving lots of feedback on. We do manufacture some of the entry iPhones in India, and that project has gone well. I am a big believer in India. I am very bullish on the country and the people and our ability to do well there. The currency weakness has been part of our challenge there, as you can tell from just looking at the currency trends, but I view these as speed bumps along a very long journey, though. And the long term I think is very, very strong there. There's a huge number of people that will move into the middle class. The government has really focused on reform in a major way and made some very bold moves. And I applaud them for doing that and

November: different iPhone launch timing from a year ago, FX headwinds, supply constraints on certain products and macroeconomic conditions in emerging markets. One of those factors, weak macro conditions in some emerging markets was significantly more severe than we originally foresaw, especially in Greater China. As our letter noted, that challenge was compounded by quarterly iPhone upgrades that were lower than we anticipated. We'll return to upgrades in a moment, but I'd first want to say a bit more about our business in Greater China. Our revenue there was down by $4.8 billion from last year with declines across iPhone, Mac and iPad. Most of the shortfall relative to our original guidance and over 100% of our worldwide year-over-year revenue decline was driven by our performance in Greater China. Despite iPhone upgrades being lower than we anticipated, our business grew outside of China, including new records in the Americas, Western Europe, Central and Eastern Europe and our rest of Asia Pacific segment. We had record performance in large markets, including the United States, Canada, Mexico, Germany, Italy, Spain and Korea. In the letter we shared earlier this month, we said we are proud to participate in the Chinese marketplace and that we believe our business has a bright future there over time. But I think some of that got lost, so I want to share a bit more detail on the positives we see in China. We generated record December quarter services revenue in Greater China, fueled by an amazing ecosystem with over 2.5 million registered iOS developers. We saw very strong results from our wearables business there with revenues up over 50%. We also continued to grow our total active installed base by adding new customers. In fact, more than two-thirds of all customers in China who bought a Mac or an iPad during the December quarter were purchasing that product for the first time. Finally, for perspective, despite the challenging December quarter, our revenue from China grew slightly for the full calendar year. Macroeconomic factors will come and go, but we see great upside in continuing to focus on the things that we can control. Returning to iPhone, I'd like to talk about our results in the context of those lower than expected upgrades. iPhone XR, iPhone Xs, and iPhone Xs Max are by far the best iPhones we've ever shipped. They share advanced technologies including the A12 Bionic, the most powerful chip ever in a smartphone with our next-generation Neural Engine capable of 5 trillion operations per second. These are also completely modern iPhones with stunning large full screen displays and Face ID, the most secure authentication of any kind available in a smartphone. And the cameras are simply amazing with portrait mode and depth control to allow users to create studio quality photos as well as stunning 4K video, opening a whole new era of photography. We couldn't be more proud of our iPhone lineup and our industry-leading customer satisfaction. We wouldn't change our position for anyone. Now, our customers are holding on to their older iPhones a bit longer than in the past. When you pair this with the macroeconomic factors, particularly in emerging markets, it resulted in iPhone revenue that was down 15% from last year. Our iPhone results accounted for significantly more than our entire year-over-year revenue decline. In fact, outside of iPhone, our business grew strongly by 19%. So, what's behind this? It's important to understand what's going on from the customer perspective at the point of purchase. We believe that it's the sum of several factors. First, foreign exchange. The relative strength of the U.S. dollar has made our products more expensive in many parts of the world. In Turkey, for example, the lira depreciated by 33% over the course of calendar 2018 and in the December quarter, our revenue there was down by almost $700 million from the previous year. Second; subsidies. For various reasons, iPhone subsidies are becoming increasingly less common. In Japan, for example, iPhone purchases were traditionally subsidized by carriers and bundled with service contracts. Competitive promotional activity frequently increase the amount of subsidy during key periods. Today, local regulations have significantly restricted those subsidies as well as related competition. As a result, we estimate that less than half of iPhones sold in Japan in Q1 of this year were subsidized compared to about three quarters a year ago and that the total value of those subsidies had come down as well. Third, our battery replacement program. For millions of customers, we made it inexpensive and efficient to replace the battery and hold onto their existing iPhones a bit longer. Some people have suggested that we shouldn't have done this because of the potential impact on upgrades, but we strongly believe it was the right thing to do for our customers. What's very important, however, is that in spite of these factors, our total active installed base of devices has grown from 1.3 billion at the end of January of 2018 to 1.4 billion by the end of December reaching a new all-time high for each of the main product categories and for all five of our geographic segments. Not only is our large and growing installed base a powerful testament to the satisfaction and loyalty of our customers, but it's also fueling our fast-growing Services business. In fact Services revenue set an all-time record at $10.9 billion in the December quarter growing 19%. We not only generated our highest global Services revenue ever, but we also had all-time records across multiple categories of Services including the App Store, Apple Pay, cloud services and our App Store search ad business and we had a December quarter record for AppleCare. And I'm very proud to say that nearly 16 years after launching the iTunes Store, we generated our highest quarterly music revenue ever thanks to the great popularity of Apple Music now with over 50 million paid subscribers. The App Store wrapped up its best year ever with record holiday period results propelled by the biggest Christmas Day and Christmas week ever. Customers also spent over $322 million on New Year's Day alone setting us new single-day record for both the number of customers and purchase volume. It was also a great holiday season for Apple Pay with over 1.8 billion transactions in the quarter well over twice the volume of the year-ago quarter. Merchant adoption continues to reach new milestones. Customers can now use Apple Pay with iPhone and Apple Watch at nearly 3,000 Speedway locations, while all Target Taco Bell and Jack-in-the-Box stores will be accepting Apple Pay soon. We launched Apple Pay in three new countries in the December quarter Germany, Belgium and Kazakhstan and is now live in 27 markets around the world. The rollout in Germany has been a huge success with Deutsche Bank reporting more activations for Apple Pay in one week than for Android in an entire year. This is yet another example of what's possible when you bring together Apple's world-class hardware, software and ecosystem with our engaged and active user base. Shoppers around the world love Apple Pay and it has increasingly become an indispensable part of daily life. Revenue from cloud services continues to grow rapidly with year-over-year revenue up over 40% in the December quarter. And readership of Apple News set a new record with over 85 million monthly active users in the three countries where we've launched the United States, the U.K., and Australia. Here in the U.S., the latest data from Comscore shows that Apple News has the largest audience of all news apps. And the international audience will continue to grow with our first-ever bilingual launch in Canada available to customers later this quarter. In summary, we're very happy not only with the growth, but also the breadth of our Services portfolio. Our revenue from Services has grown from less than $8 billion in calendar 2010 to over $41 billion in calendar 2018. The largest category represents less than 30% of total Services revenue and the new services we've launched in the last few years are all experiencing tremendous growth. We had our best quarter ever for Mac revenue which was up 9% fueled by our new MacBook Air and Mac Mini introduced in October. The MacBook Air includes a beautiful new Retina display, Touch ID and Force Touch Trackpad while the new Mac mini provides a powerful, flexible solution for everything from home automation to giant render forms. iPad revenue was up 17%, its highest growth rate in almost six years powered by the new iPad Pro released in November with its edge-to-edge Liquid Retina display, Face ID and A12X Bionic chip, the new iPad Pro has been described by reviewers as a tablet with no equal and the most powerful mobile device ever made. We also had our best quarter ever for Wearables Home and Accessories with 33% growth in total and almost 50% growth from Wearables, thanks to strong sales of both Apple Watch and AirPods. We don't measure our success in 90-day increments. We manage Apple for the long term and when we consider the keys to our success over time there are three that stand out, our highly satisfied and loyal customers, our large and growing active installed base and at the heart of it all, our deeply ingrained culture of innovation. Thanks to all this our ecosystem is stronger than ever before. We have an amazingly talented team creating hardware, software and services, optimizing each of them to create an unparalleled user experience. Apple Watch is a powerful example of that. It's humbling to read e-mails from customers around the world telling us how Apple Watch has dramatically changed their lives by motivating them to be more fit and active, by alerting them to potentially serious health conditions such as AFib and by helping them in times of crisis with features like fall detection and emergency SOS. We believe we are just beginning to see the impact we can make to improving health and are deeply inspired by the possibilities. Another example is the work we're doing with silicon. We've embedded machine learning directly into the silicon with our A12 Bionic chip. Our custom Neural Engine not only provides power efficiency and incredible performance in a very small package, but it also enables processing of data and transactions directly on the device. This means iPhone can recognize patterns make predictions and learn from experience and it does all this while keeping personal information private. This is a powerful example of how innovation and privacy can go hand-in-hand at a time when these issues are increasingly important to our users. We are undertaking and accelerating a number of initiatives to improve our results. It's not in our DNA to just stand around and wait for macroeconomic conditions to improve. One such initiative is making it simple to trade in an iPhone in our stores and raising awareness of this opportunity. Because of the quality and durability of iPhones, they maintain significant residual value making trade-ins a great opportunity. It's not only great for the environment, it's great for the customer as their existing phone acts as a subsidy for their new phone and it's great for developers as a phone that is traded in and redistributed can help grow our active installed base. Beginning last week, we started making it easier for people to pay for their phones over time with installed payments and we're working on rolling out this program to more geographies as soon as we can. We are as confident as ever in the fundamental strength of our business and we have a very strong pipeline of products and services with some exciting announcements coming later this year. Apple innovates like no other company on earth and we are not taking our foot off the gas. We'll continue to invest through near-term headwinds just as we always have and we'll emerge stronger as a result. Now for more details on our

Maestri: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. As Tim said, revenue for the December quarter was $84.3 billion. This result was below our expectations, but we were able to set new all-time revenue records in the U.S., Canada, Latin America, Western Europe, Central and Eastern Europe and Korea. Our results were especially strong in the U.S. where revenue was up by more than $1.5 billion compared to a year ago and in several markets where revenue grew by double digits including among others Germany, Spain, Poland, Mexico, Malaysia and Vietnam. Looking at product categories. iPhone revenue declined 15% from a year ago while revenue from the rest of our business grew 19% to an all-time record, including our best results ever for Services, for Wearables and for Mac. Company gross margin was 38%. This quarter for the first time, we're making an important new disclosure to our investors as we believe it will foster a better understanding of our business. We are now reporting on a quarterly basis, gross margin for products in aggregate and for Services in aggregate. Products gross margin was 34.3% and Services gross margin was 62.8%. On a sequential basis, products gross margin increased 60 basis points due to positive leverage from the holiday quarter, partially offset by higher cost structures as we launched several new products and by headwinds from foreign exchange. Services gross margin also increased 170 basis points sequentially due to favorable mix and leverage, partially offset by foreign exchange. While both products and services gross margins improved sequentially, total company gross margin was down 30 basis points due to a different mix between products and services. Net income was $20 billion about flat to last year and diluted earnings per share were an all-time record at $4.18, an increase of 7.5% over last year. Operating cash flow was also very strong at $26.7 billion. Let me provide more color for the various products categories. iPhone revenue was $52 billion. On a geographic basis, most of the decline from last year came from Greater China and other emerging markets with difficult macro and foreign exchange conditions affected our results. We also believe that the reduction of carrier subsidies and our battery replacement program had an impact in a number of countries around the world. And as Tim mentioned we had a lower number of upgrades than we had anticipated at the beginning of the quarter. However, our global active installed base of iPhones continues to grow and has reached an all-time high at the end of December. We are disclosing that number now for the first time. And it has surpassed 900 million devices, up year-over-year in each of our five geographic segments and growing almost 75 million in the last 12 months alone. We plan to provide information on the iPhone installed base as well as total installed base on a periodic basis. Customer satisfaction and loyalty for iPhone continue to be outstanding and are the highest in the industry. The latest survey of U.S. consumers from 451 Research indicates customer satisfaction of 99% for iPhone XR, XS and XS Max combined. And among business buyers who plan to purchase smartphones in the March quarter 81% plan to purchase iPhones. Based on the latest information from Kantar, iPhone experienced a 90% customer loyalty rating for iPhone customers in the U.S. 23 points above the next highest brand measured. Turning to Services. It was our best quarter ever with revenue of $10.9 billion, up 19% year-over-year with new December quarter records in all five of our geographic segments. Many Services categories set new all-time revenue records and we are on track to achieve our goal of doubling our fiscal 2016 Services revenue by 2020. To be clear and as we've already explained 90 days ago, our 2020 goal remains unchanged and it excludes the impact of the revenue reclassification between products and services we recorded in connection with ASC 606, the new revenue recognition accounting standard that we adopted at the beginning of fiscal 2019. The level of engagement of our customers in our ecosystem continues to grow. The number of transacting accounts on our digital stores reached a new all-time high during the quarter with the number of paid accounts growing by strong double digits over last year. And we now have over 360 million paid subscriptions across our Services portfolio, an increase of 120 million versus a year ago. Given the continued strength and momentum in this part of the business, we now expect the number of paid subscriptions to surpass 0.5 billion during 2020. Our subscription business has become very large and diversified covering many different categories from entertainment to health and fitness to lifestyle. In fact, more than 30,000 third-party subscription apps are available today on the App Store and the largest of them accounts for only 0.3% of our total Services revenue. Next, I'd like to talk about the Mac. We saw great response to the new MacBook Air and Mac mini that we introduced in October, which helped drive a 9% increase in Mac revenue over last year to a new all-time record. Mac revenue was up in the vast majority of countries we track with double-digit growth in many large markets such as the U.S., Western Europe, Central and Eastern Europe, Japan, Korea and South Asia. Our active installed base of Macs reached a new all-time high and half of all the customers purchasing Macs in the December quarter were new to Mac. We also had great results for iPad with revenue up 17% from a year ago. A strong performance of both iPad and iPad Pro and generated double-digit growth in four of our five geographic segments. Similar to the Mac, our installed base of iPads reached a new all-time high and among customers purchasing iPad during the quarter half were new to iPad. The most recent consumer survey from 451 Research measured a 94% customer satisfaction rating for iPad overall, with iPad Pro models scoring as high as 100%. Among business customers who plan to purchase tablets in the March quarter, 68% plan to purchase iPads. Wearables, home and accessories revenue grew 33% to a new all-time record in each of our geographic segments. Revenue from this category was up over $1.8 billion compared to a year ago, thanks to the amazing popularity of Apple Watch and AirPods both of which were supply constrained as we exited the quarter. Based on revenue over the past four quarters, our Wearables business is approaching the size of a Fortune 200 company. Our retail and online stores generated strong results for Mac and iPad and all-time record performance from Services and from Wearables. Following the launch of the new iPhone trade-in campaign, our stores more than doubled the volume of iPhones traded in compared to last year, reaching an all-time high in Q1. We added Thailand to our footprint with a beautiful store in Bangkok and we opened a stunning new store on Champs-Elysees in Paris exiting the quarter with 506 physical stores in 22 countries. In enterprise, across multiple industries our technology continues to enable businesses to do their best work. In healthcare, iPhones and iOS apps continue to streamline and support clinical workflows, communications and care delivery across leading health systems including Johns Hopkins Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Stanford Health Care and Saint Jude Children's Research Hospital. In manufacturing, SKF the world’s largest producers of bearings and seals, has transformed their manufacturing processes on iOS and iPhone with incredible success. With custom iOS apps available to production operators across their worldwide locations, SKF has reduced production errors from 20 percent to zero while saving 70% in system-related time. Apple technology has made possible a simplified user experience integrating the SAP cloud platform, yielding better accuracy, efficiency, and employee experiences across the board. We’re also seeing great innovation in the construction industry, with iPad and new third-party apps made for iOS. For instance, Procore Technologies has introduced an app to help decrease building errors on the job site. By using Metal in Split View with the iPad camera, construction workers can compare building plants and 3D models to what is actually being built in real time. This new iOS app reduces wasted raw materials and helps keep building projects on time and on budget. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $245 billion in cash plus marketable securities. We also had $102.8 billion in term debt and $12 billion in commercial paper outstanding, for a net cash position of $130 billion. As we explained in the past, it is our plan to reach a net cash neutral position over time. As part of this plan, we returned over $13 billion to our investors during the December quarter. We repurchased 38 million Apple shares for $8.2 billion through open market transactions and we paid $3.6 billion in dividends and equivalents. Consistent with our historical cadence, we plan to provide an update on our overall capital return program when we report our March quarter results. As we move ahead into the March quarter, I’d like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $55 billion and $59 billion. This range reflects a negative year-over-year impact of $1.3 billion from foreign exchange, which represents about 210 basis points of last year's revenue and a more uncertain macroeconomic environment than a year ago, especially in emerging markets. We expect gross margin to be between 37% and 38%. On a sequential basis, this range reflects seasonal loss of leverage and a 60 basis point unfavorable impact from foreign exchange, partially offset by commodity cost savings. We expect OpEx to be between $8.5 billion and $8.6 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $300 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 17%. Also today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.73 per share of common stock, payable on February 14, 2019 to shareholders of record as of February 11, 2019.

Paxton: Thank you, Luca. And we ask that you limit yourselves to two questions. And may we have the first question please?

Huberty: Thank you. Good afternoon. Services growth did decelerate from the growth rates in recent quarters, so can you talk about the factors that played into that slower growth? And then, appreciate the new disclosure around paid subscribers. But if you compare what you added in 2018 versus what you expect to add over the next two years, that implies a slowdown in annual net new subscribers. So should we be thinking about services as a lower growth segment than what you experienced in 2018?

Maestri: Yes, Katy, let me take that one. First of all, when we talk about the services business, it's very important to start from the momentum that we have. As you know, we have set an ambitious target for ourselves to double the size of our business from fiscal 2016 to 2020, which implied at the time a 19% CAGR. So far, we've been able to grow about 20%. In fiscal 2018, we grew 22%. So we are on track to achieve our objective. And it's important to understand what is driving the growth of the business. First of all, it's our installed base. As we just told you, the installed base continues to grow very nicely. It has reached 1.4 billion active devices at the end of December and really very little of our services revenue is driven by what we sell in the last 90 days. The second factor for the growth of the services business is that within this installed base the percentage of users who are paying for at least one service is growing very strongly. This is due to several factors. First of all, we're offering more and more services. During the last few years, as you know, we launched Apple Music, Apple Pay and advertising service for our developers on the App Store. All these businesses are growing very strongly. Second, we are making it easier for our customers to transact on our digital stores. We accept many more payment methods today which are very common in certain countries around the world. We've also increased the distribution coverage for many of these services. We're bringing AppleCare to more points of sale around the world. We are launching Apple Pay in more and more markets and so on. Thirdly, as you mentioned, our subscriptions are becoming a very large portion of our business and they're growing very well above services average. And the fact that we are saying that we will surpass 0.5 billion during 2020, we're not putting a specific date during 2020, but I think you've seen over recent quarters that we've been adding about 120 million on a year-over-year basis for a number of quarters now. And this is an incredible staggering number, right, when you think about it. We are also broadening the scope of many of these services. If you take Apple Pay as an example, it started off as the most convenient, most private and most secure way to make a payment in a store or in an app. Then we took Apple Pay to Safari, then we started a peer-to-peer service and we're launching it in new markets across the world every quarter, so we are broadening that scope. And of course, similar to what we've done in the past in the last three years, we launched several new services, we're also looking to launch new services going forward that we believe will provide great value to our users and we're really very excited about the opportunities that we see in front of us. I think you're referring to the deceleration in the growth rate that we've seen in the December quarter. And I think you're referring back to the growth that we reported in September. I think an important point I need to make, and I think it's helpful that you asked the question, is that a portion of this deceleration is truly just a reclassification of the amortization of free services that we've made in connection with the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. And as we explained 90 days ago, this amortization of free services in the past was reported under Products and now gets reported under Services. The reclassification is actually dilutive to our growth rate because the amortization of free services is a relatively stable number, which gets applied to a growing base. So this reclassification reduces our growth rate versus the previous classification. This factor by itself represents roughly one-third of the deceleration that you're seeing. We talked about 27% growth in the September quarter. With the reclassification that growth rate was about 24.5%. So that explains about a third of that deceleration. There are, I would say three factors that explain this difference between the 24.5% to the 19%. The first one is that foreign exchange plays a role. Roughly 60% of our Services business is outside the United States. And as you know the U.S. dollar has appreciated in recent months. And in general, we tend not to reprice our services for foreign exchange on a very frequent basis. The second factor is a well-known issue around the App Store in China. The App Store in China is a large business for us. We believe this issue around the approval of new game titles is temporary in nature, but clearly is affecting our business right now. And then thirdly, we are seeing some level of deceleration in AppleCare, which has had very, very strong growth during fiscal 2018, where we're starting to lap some of the increase in distribution coverage that we put in place recently and the channel fill of Apple components that happened when we increase the distribution coverage. But in general, we are very, very pleased with 19% growth and we think that the business will continue to grow nicely going forward.

Huberty: Thank you for that color. Just a quick follow-up, Luca. Share repurchases in the December quarter were well below the run rate from the June and September quarters. How much did the weaker quarter play into your ability to carry out the buyback at the same level? And what should we think about is the right run rate going forward?

Maestri: Well Steve, we did mention on the call last quarter that the different timing of our phone launches would affect the year-over-year compares. If you remember, our top models the Xs and Xs Max shipped during the September quarter, which plays the channel fill and the initial sales in that quarter. While last year the iPhone X shipped in Q1 in the December quarter, plays in the channel fill and initial sales in the December quarter. So we knew that this would create a difficult compare for Q1 of 2019 and this is essentially what happened. It was pretty much in line with our expectations. To give you more color I would say that, the XR is our most popular model and it's followed by

Sacconaghi: Yes. Thank you. I have one for Luca and one for Tim. Luca, looks like the midpoint of your Q2 revenue guidance implies the steepest Q1 to Q2 sequential decline in iPhone revenues in history. It also implies a year-over-year deceleration in iPhone revenues. And I'm wondering, if you can comment about whether that's conservatism, whether you're entering the quarter with a high level of channel inventory and maybe you can comment explicitly on that, or whether you actually think the macroeconomic conditions are getting worse?

Maestri: Yeah. I mean three questions there. The first one is a question around conservatism. As we always do when we provide a range, it's a range that we believe we're going to fall within. We've done pretty well with that up until the December quarter, right? I mean, we've been – we didn't miss in years and years. So that's the idea. There isn't a specific level of conservatism. We believe that this is the range where we're going to fall within. On channel inventory, as you know our historical pattern for iPhone channel inventory is that typically we increase inventory in Q1 and we decrease in Q2. And we think this year will be similar and we've exited the December quarter with levels of inventory that we are comfortable with. So that leaves us with the reality that our iPhone performance in Q1 from a revenue standpoint was minus 15%. And we expect that the key factors that Tim mentioned during the call affecting iPhone performance in Q1 will also have an effect on Q2 starting with the strong U.S. dollar environment. On a year-over-year basis, the negative impact from currency is going to be about $1.3 billion, so that's about a bit more than two points versus last year's revenue and so that obviously plays a role. And the macroeconomic environment particularly in emerging markets will continue to be there. On the positive side, we expect that we will continue to grow revenue nicely from the rest of the business which is not i

Sacconaghi: Okay. Tim, at your September event Lisa Jackson, an Apple VP, stated the company needed to quote design products to last as long as possible. And Apple's clearly doing that by helping with the battery replacement program, iOS working on an older range of products et cetera. But I guess the question is why doesn't that mean that replacement or upgrade cycles for iPhones should continue to extend going forward in part because that's almost one of your objectives? And maybe to that end, maybe you can help us understand what iPhones' average replacement cycle might be today, and how that may have changed over the last three to five years. And again, why wouldn't you expect it to elongate over time given some of the aforementioned things?

Maestri: Yes. I mean as I said I mean essentially what -- services -- I said services too is our installed base. So the first driver is growing the installed base. Installed base has grown nicely over the last several years. We've added 100 million in the last 12 months alone. So that's the first step. Then within that installed base, of course we want to make sure that there are more people that are so interested in our services that in addition to transacting on those services on a free basis, they also are interested in paying for those services. And I mentioned that the percentage of paid accounts has increased strong double-digits. So we want to continue to do that. We want to make it easier for our customers to actually use our services and so we are accepting more and more payment methods around the world. And clearly, as you said the idea of adding new services is very important to us. During the last three years, we've added Apple Pay, which has been incredibly successful and is a wonderful customer experience. We've added Apple Music, where we now have more than 50 million paid subscribers and continues to grow very nicely. And we've added a very useful service to our developers. We provide an advertising service for developers in the App Store. The way we've added these services in the past, obviously, we're also very interested in adding new services that can provide great value to our customers in the future. Now we don't want to get into product announcements here, but obviously that is part of our strategy.

Cook: Thanks, Nancy. Good afternoon and thanks to all of you for joining us today. This has been an exciting and productive quarter for Apple. In my letter to investors at the beginning of January, I wrote that one of Apple's great strengths is our culture of flexibility, adaptability, and creativity. This quarter featured some important announcements that speak to the power of our commitment to innovation and long-term thinking. I'd like to start with some top-line highlights and then move into greater detail with you. I'll get started with financial results. Our revenue was $58 billion toward the high end of our guidance range. We see this result as a positive outcome in light of ongoing headwinds from weaker foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar. In constant currency, our year-over-year revenue performance would have been 200 basis points better than our reported results indicate. We had great results in a number of areas across our business. It was our best quarter ever for Services with revenue reaching $11.5 billion. We had a blockbuster quarter for iPad, with revenue up 22% from a year ago. This is our highest iPad revenue growth rate in six years. And it was another sensational quarter for Wearables with growth near 50%. This business is now about the size of a Fortune 200 company, an amazing statistic when you consider it's only been four years since we delivered the very first Apple Watch. I'll talk more about these categories later. While we grew year-over-year in developed markets, and while we had record March quarter results in a number of major markets including the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, and Japan, we did experience a revenue decline in emerging markets. But we feel positive about our trajectory. Our year-over-year revenue performance in Greater China improved relative to the December quarter, and we've seen very positive customer response to the pricing actions we've taken in that market, our trade-in and financing programs in our retail stores, the effects of government measures to stimulate the economy, and improved trade dialog between the United States and China. Our App Store results are still reflecting the impact of the slowdown in regulatory approval in gaming apps in China, but we're encouraged by the recent increase in the pace of approvals. We believe strongly in our long-term opportunity in China, thanks to our robust ecosystem, our talented developer community, and the country's growing population of tech-savvy consumers who value the very best products and services. For iPhone, while our worldwide revenue was down 17% from a year ago, declines were significantly smaller in the final weeks of the March quarter. Looking back at the past five months, November and December were the most challenging, so this is an encouraging trend. We like the direction we're headed with iPhone and our goal now is to pick up the pace. Importantly, our active installed base of devices continues to grow in each of our geographic segments, and set a new all-time record for all major product categories. That growing installed base is a reflection of the satisfaction and loyalty of our customers, and it's driving our Services business to new heights. In fact, we had our best quarter ever for the App Store, Apple Music cloud services, and our App Store search ad business, and we set new March quarter revenue records for AppleCare and Apple Pay. Apple Pay transaction volume more than doubled year-over-year, and we're on track to reach 10 billion transactions this calendar year. Apple Pay is now available in 30 markets, and we expect to be live in 40 markets by the end of the year. More and more transit systems are accepting Apple Pay and New York's MTA system will begin the rollout in early summer. As we've seen in places like London, Tokyo, and Shanghai, contactless entry into transit systems helps to spur broader Apple Pay adoption, and we believe this will get even more people using Apple Pay in the United States. And Ticketmaster has just announced that they will be accepting Apple Pay for ticket purchases on the web and through the Ticketmaster app, and over 50 of their entertainment and sporting event venues are launching contactless tickets this year, including the vast majority of NFL stadiums. Subscriptions are a powerful driver of our Services business. We reached a new high of over 390 million paid subscriptions at the end of March, an increase of 30 million in the last quarter alone. This was also an incredibly important quarter for our Services moving forward. In March, we previewed a game-changing array of new services, each of them rooted in principles that are fundamentally Apple. They're easy to use. They feature unmatched attention to detail. They put a premium on user privacy and security. They're expertly curated, personalized, and ready to be shared by everyone in your family. These features aren't just nice to have. They actually help to eliminate the boundary between hardware, software, and service, creating a singularly exceptional experience for our users. First, building on the great momentum of Apple News, which is already the number one news app in the United States and the United Kingdom, we launched Apple News+. It will bring together over 30 popular magazines, leading newspapers, and digital publishers into a beautiful, convenient, and curated experience within the Apple News app. Apple News+ builds on our commitment to supporting quality journalism from trusted sources, while providing the best magazine and news reading experience ever for mobile devices. Advancing our vision to replace the wallet, we announced Apple Card built on principles Apple stands for like transparency, simplicity, and privacy. Apple Card is integrated into the Wallet app and delivers all new experiences that only Apple can provide integrating our hardware, software and services in an elegant solution that places the customer at the center. It's the first card to encourage you to pay less interest, eliminate fees, and give you daily cash on all your purchases and customer interest to date has been terrific. We also previewed Apple Arcade, the world's first game subscription service for mobile, desktop, and the living room. With over 100 new games, all with no ads or ad tracking, no additional purchases, and respect for user privacy, we've created a service for players of all ages, kids to teens to adults and one that families can enjoy together. The App Store is already the world's biggest gaming platform and we think Apple Arcade is a great way to unleash the creativity of the game developer community with a collection of new games not available on any other mobile platform or in any other subscription service. We can't wait for our customers to experience it for themselves beginning this fall. We were thrilled to provide a peek at what's new for TV. Beginning in mid-May, the all-new Apple TV app will bring together the different ways to discover and watch shows, movies, sports news, and more in one app across iPhone, iPad, Apple TV, Mac, smart TVs, and streaming devices. And users can subscribe to and watch new Apple TV channels like HBO Showtime and Starz paying only for services they want all on-demand available on and offline. And coming this fall, Apple TV+ will be the new home for the world's most creative storytellers featuring exclusive original shows, movies, and documentaries. We also had several major product introductions during the quarter. We launched a new, more powerful iMac with dramatic increases in both compute and graphics performance, making it a great update for consumers and pros alike. For our Mac business overall, we faced some processor constraints in the March quarter leading to a 5% revenue decline compared to last year, but we believe that our Mac revenue would have been up compared to last year without those constraints and don't believe this challenge will have a significant impact on our Q3 results. For iPad, we were very happy to return to growth in Greater China while generating strong double-digit growth in each of our other geographic segments. Our great iPad results were driven primarily by strong customer response to iPad Pro. Late in the quarter, we launched an all-new iPad Air with an ultra-thin design, Apple Pencil support, and high-end performance powered by Apple's A12 Bionic chip. In addition, we introduced a new iPad Mini, a major upgrade for iPad fans who love an ultra-portable design and like the new iPad Air, it delivers the power of the A12 Bionic and support for Apple Pencil. Last month, we introduced new AirPods, the second generation of the world's most popular wireless headphones and demand has been incredible. This is nothing less than a cultural phenomenon. With the new Apple-designed H1 chip, the new AirPods deliver faster connect times, more talk time, and the convenience of hands-free Hey Siri. Our retail and online stores continue to be a key point of innovation. As we mentioned in January, we've been working on an initiative to make it simple to trade in a phone in our store, finance the purchase over time, and get help transferring data from the old phone to the new phone. As part of this initiative, we rolled out new trade-in and financing programs in the U.S., China, the U.K., Spain, Italy, and Australia. The results have been striking. Across our stores, we had an all-time record response to our trade-in programs and with more than 4 times the trade-in volume of our March quarter a year ago. With each passing quarter, we're more inspired by the impact our products are having on people's fitness and health. This quarter, we brought the ECG app on Apple Watch Series 4 to Hong Kong and 19 European countries including France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the U.K. Just like when the ECG app launched in the United States, there's hardly a day that goes by that I don't get a letter or an e-mail from a customer in one of these countries talking about how this feature has significantly changed their life. We believe we're really just beginning to tap into what we can do to help our users actively manage their health and well-being. For example, last month Stanford Medicine reported results of the Apple Heart Study, the largest study ever of its kind, which enrolled over 400,000 participants from all 50 states in a span of only eight months. And hundreds of institutions are now supporting health records on iPhone with recent additions including Michigan Medicine and UT Health Austin. In February, we announced that we are working with the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs to make health records on iPhone available to veterans. This will be the first record sharing platform of its kind available to the VA, which is the largest medical system in the U.S. providing service to more than nine million veterans across more than 1,200 facilities. Apple's innovation extends beyond the impact we have in the lives of our customers to the impact we leave on the world around us. We recently marked Earth Day with several major announcements about our efforts to leave the world better than we found it. We've completed the allocation of our $2.5 billion green bond proceeds across 40 environmental initiatives around the world to projects ranging from solar power generation to water conservation to development of custom alloys for our products made from 100% recycled aluminum. We've announced a major expansion of our recycling programs, including quadrupling the number of locations where U.S. customers can send their iPhones to be disassembled by Daisy, our recycling robot. Each Daisy can now disassemble 1.2 million devices per year, allowing recovered materials to be recycled into the manufacturing process. And we partnered with a record number of our suppliers to follow our lead and transition to 100% clean energy. With the help of these 44 suppliers, we will exceed our goal of bringing four gigawatts of renewable energy into our supply chain by 2020 with over one additional gigawatt projected within that time frame. In the last calendar year alone, the partners that have joined this effort have generated enough clean energy to power over 600,000 homes in the United States. We're very proud of the progress that we and our partners are making, and hope our actions will inspire other businesses to do what they can to protect the world that we share. We are as excited as ever about our great pipeline of hardware, software and services and we're looking forward to sharing more information about the future of our four software platforms at our Worldwide Developer Conference now less than five weeks from now. Everyone here is hard at work to prepare for WWDC, and it's always a privilege to get to share the future of our platforms with the community of world changing developers who bring it to life. You are not going to want to miss this one. We're in the fortunate position of generating more cash than we need to run our business and invest confidently in our future, so today we're announcing the latest update to our capital return program including an increase to our share repurchase authorization and our quarterly dividend. For more details on that and our

Maestri: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. Revenue in the March quarter was $58 billion near the high end of the guidance range that we provided 90 days ago and down 5% from last year. Our revenue decline reflects 200 basis points of negative foreign exchange, due to the strength of the U.S. dollar. Overall, products revenue declined 9% driven primarily by iPhone, while Services revenue grew 16% to a new all-time record. We also set a new March quarter record for Wearables Home and Accessories, and we recorded our best iPad growth rate in six years. Company gross margin was 37.6% in line with our guidance. Products gross margin was 31.2% down about 310 basis points sequentially due to the seasonal loss of leverage and headwinds from foreign exchange. Services gross margin was 63.8%, up 100 basis points sequentially due to a different mix and leverage from higher revenue. Net income was $11.6 billion. Diluted earnings per share were $2.46 and operating cash flow was $11.2 billion. Let me provide more color for our various revenue categories. iPhone revenue was $31.1 billion. We're seeing positive customer response to recent pricing actions in certain emerging markets, as well as enhancements to our trade-in and financing programs. And our year-over-year performance improved relative to our December quarter results in Greater China, in the Americas and in Japan. Our active installed base of iPhone reached a new all-time high at the end of March. This growing installed base reflects the industry leading satisfaction and loyalty of our customers. The latest survey of U.S. consumers from 451 Research indicates customer satisfaction of 99% for iPhone XR, XS and XS Max combined. And among business buyers, who plan to purchase smartphones in the June quarter, 81% plan to purchase iPhones. Turning to Services. As Tim said, it was our best quarter ever with $11.5 billion in revenue, an increase of 16% from last year. We generated double-digit revenue growth across the App Store, Apple Music, cloud services, AppleCare, Apple Pay and our App Store search ad business. And we set all-time services revenue records in four of our five geographic segments. We're very happy with this performance. As you can see from our new disclosures, Services accounted for 20% of our March quarter revenue and about one-third of our gross profit dollars. Customer engagement in our ecosystem continues to grow. The number of transacting accounts on our digital content stores reached another new all-time high during the quarter with the number of paid accounts, also setting a new all-time record and growing by strong double-digits over last year. And we now have over 390 million paid subscriptions across our Services portfolio, an increase of 120 million versus just 12 months ago. All subscription categories are growing strong double-digits and as we mentioned a quarter ago, we expect the number of paid subscriptions to surpass 0.5 billion during 2020. On the App Store, our subscription business is extremely diversified and is growing strongly around the world. In fact, the number of paid third-party subscriptions increased by over 40% compared to last year in each of our geographic segments. And across all third-party subscription apps, the largest accounted for only 0.3% of our total Services revenue. Next, I'd like to talk about the Mac. Revenue was $5.5 billion compared to $5.8 billion a year ago with the decline driven primarily by processor constraint on certain popular models. In spite of this challenge, we generated double-digit Mac revenue growth in Japan and Korea setting new all-time Mac revenue records in both markets. On a global basis, nearly half of the customers purchasing Macs during the quarter were new to Mac and the active installed base of Macs reached a new all-time high. We had great results for iPad with $4.9 billion in revenue and growth accelerating from the December quarter to 22%. iPad revenue grew in all five of our geographic segments, with a return to growth in Greater China and strong double-digit growth in all other segments. We had our best March quarter ever for iPad in Japan, and we were especially pleased by performance in Korea, Thailand and Mexico where revenue more than doubled over last year. In total, over half of the customers purchasing iPads during the March quarter were new to iPad and the iPad active installed base also reached a new all-time high. iPad revenue growth has been fueled primarily by the great customer response to our new iPad Pros. These completely redesigned iPads with full-screen Liquid Retina display, Face ID, powerful A12X Bionic chip with Neural Engine and support for the new Apple Pencil and Smart Keyboard make iPad Pro the perfect PC laptop replacement for both consumers and professionals. The most recent surveys from 451 Research measured a 93% customer satisfaction rating for iPad overall. Among customers who plan to purchase tablets 77% of consumers and 75% of businesses plan to purchase iPads. Wearables Home and Accessories revenue set a new March quarter revenue record of $5.1 billion fueled primarily by the strong performance of our Wearables business, which grew close to 50%. Within this category, Apple Watch is the best-selling and most loved smartwatch in the world and produced its best results ever for a non-holiday quarter. It's reaching many new customers with three quarters of purchases going to customers who have never owned an Apple Watch before. Interest in AirPods has been off the charts and we're working hard to catch up with the incredible customer demand. Turning to our retail and online stores. We generated very strong double-digit revenue growth from Apple Watch and iPad. We also announced 50 new Today at Apple sessions during the quarter in three new and expanded formats Skills, Walks and Labs free at our stores around the world. We're making important progress in the enterprise market, helping transform major industries. We're building on Apple's leading position in key functional areas to expand our reach and share within large accounts. Aviation is a strong example of this strategy at work. Across 450 airlines, iPad is overwhelmingly the preferred solution for the pilot's electronic flight bag. We've been making great progress expanding Apple's footprint beyond the cockpit into the cabin, where more than half of the top 50 airlines have now implemented iOS to enhance the guest experience as well as enable a new use case with mobile point-of-sale. We're also seeing traction with other mission-critical airline functions in ground operations and flight maintenance. For example, one of the largest airlines in the world tells us that the adoption of iPad has cut maintenance delays in half. Apple services are also making their way onboard, including growing adoption of Apple Pay for food and beverage purchases and in-flight access to Apple Music. We're also seeing significant iOS traction with large enterprise platforms which are the face of complex back-end systems to tens of millions of employees around the world. The end user employee experience is vital to engagement and productivity and with increasing mobility of today's modern workforce, those experiences are best on native iOS applications. We see great momentum through the growing number of iOS SDKs being delivered by the world's largest enterprise platforms. For instance, SAP's SDK for iOS continues to gain strong traction with their customers, growing by more than 40% in the last six months. And this past quarter Salesforce released its SDK enabling developers to build native iOS applications directly on top of the Salesforce platform. And finally, our enterprise channels continue to build momentum. In February, our Apple at Work initiative was launched with AT&T. This extension to our ongoing collaboration with AT&T will make it easy for more customers to choose the best Apple products for their needs in the enterprise and modernize their business. AT&T will enable business services for Apple products to help companies with their IT strategy, including device management, security, productivity and collaboration. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $225 billion in cash, plus marketable securities. We also had $101 billion in term debt and $12 billion in commercial paper outstanding, for a net cash position of almost $113 billion. As a result, we are in a very strong position that allows us to invest confidently in all areas of the business, while continuing to return value to our shareholders. Just last year, we announced a commitment to contribute more than $350 billion to the U.S. economy over the next five years, including the creation of 20,000 jobs. More recently, we've announced a major expansion in Austin Texas and in other cities across the country. All these efforts are essential investments to make sure that we're incorporating innovative ideas and top talent wherever they emerge. As we execute those initiatives, we are also able to return over $27 billion to investors during the March quarter. We began a $12 billion accelerated share repurchase program in February, resulting in the initial delivery and retirement of 55.1 million shares. We also repurchased 71.7 million Apple shares for $12 billion through open market transactions and we paid $3.4 billion in dividends and equivalents. Our priorities for cash have not changed over the years. Most importantly, we always want to maintain the cash we need to run our business, maintain strategic flexibility, and invest in our future. We're well on our way towards meeting the investment projections we laid out early last year. We also want to work towards a more optimal capital structure and as we said before, it is our plan to reach a net cash neutral position over time. Given our confidence in Apple's future and the value we see in our stock, our Board has authorized an additional $75 billion for share repurchases. And because we know many of our investors value income, we're also raising our quarterly dividend for the seventh time in less than seven years to $0.77, an increase of about 5% from the previous amount. We paid over $14 billion in dividends and equivalents over the last four quarters alone, making us one of the largest dividend payers in the world. Going forward, we continue to plan for annual increases in dividends per share. As we move ahead into the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $52.5 billion and $54.5 billion. This guidance range comprehends 300 basis points of negative foreign exchange impact year-over-year. Also as a reminder, in the June quarter last year, our Services revenue included a favorable $236 million one-time item in connection with the final resolution of various lawsuits. We expect gross margin to be between 37% and 38%. We expect OpEx to be between $8.7 billion and $8.8 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $250 million, and we expect the tax rate to be about 16.5%. Also reflecting the approved increase, today our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.77 per share of common stock, payable on May 16, 2019 to shareholders of record as of

Paxton: Thank you, Luca. And we ask that you limit yourselves to two questions. Operator, may we have the first question please?

Cook: Thank you, Nancy. Good afternoon and thanks to all of you for joining us today. We're thrilled to report a return to growth and new June quarter revenue record of $53.8 billion. We saw significant improvement in year-over-year iPhone performance compared to last quarter, very strong performances for both Mac and iPad and absolutely blowout quarter for Wearables, but we had accelerating growth of well over 50% and a new high watermark for services, where we set an all time revenue record of $11.5 billion. When you step back and consider Wearables and services together two areas where we have strategically invested in last several years, they now approach the size of a Fortune 50 company. Geographically, we are happy with our performance across the board including a return to growth in Mainland China. We accomplished these results despite strong headwinds from foreign exchange which impacted our top-line growth rate by 300 basis points compared to a year ago that's equivalent to about $1.5 billion of revenue. Importantly, in constant currency, our revenue grew in all five of our geographic segments. For iPhone, we generated $26 billion in revenue, while this is down 12% from last year's June quarter, it is a significant improvement to the 17% year-over-year decline in Q2. We are encouraged by the results we are seeing from the initiatives that we spoke about in January including strong customer response to our in-store trade-in and financing programs. In fact, iPhone our retail and online stores returned to growth on a year-over-year basis in the month of June. Our active installed base of iPhone reached a new all time high and was up year-over-year in each of our top 20 markets underscoring the quality of our products and the satisfaction and loyalty of iPhone customers around the world. Revenue excluding iPhone was up 17% from last year with growth across all categories. Starting with services, we generated all time record revenue of $11.5 billion that's up 13% year-over-year and if we exclude the $236 million favorable one-time item from the June quarter last year, services growth was 15% or 18% in constant currency which is consistent with our Q2 performance. Our strong services performance was broad based, we set new all-time records for AppleCare, music, cloud services and our app store search ad business and we achieved a new third quarter revenue record for the app store. What's more, we had double-digit services revenue growth in all five of our geographic segments. We surpassed 420 million paid subscriptions to services across our platform and we remain on track to double our fiscal year '16 services revenue in 2020. In May, we launched our all new Apple TV app in over 100 countries bringing together all the ways to watch TV in a single app across iPhone, iPad, Apple TV and select smart TV's. Monthly viewers in the Apple TV app in the United States are up over 40% year-over-year. We've seen our success being driven here by several factors. First, the fact that we have been able to integrate content from over 150 leading content providers all in one place. Second, the same ease-of-use and unmatched user interface that sets Apple apart in other categories sets us apart in TV as well. And third, we're benefiting from a broader secular move to over-the-top services. We're engaging with this third trend in five ways. Our Apple TV hardware, Apple TV channels where customers can choose to pay only for the channels they want. Our massive library of over 100,000 iTunes movies and TV shows, the app store where users can find their favorite streaming services and later this year, our original programming service Apple TV+. Apple Pay is now completing nearly 1 billion transactions per month more than twice the volume of a year ago. Apple Pay launched in 17 countries in the June quarter completing our coverage in the European Union and bringing us to a total of 47 markets currently. Based on June quarter performance, Apple Pay is now adding more new users than PayPal and monthly transaction volume is growing 4x as fast. In the United States, in addition to a successful integration into Portland's transit system in May, we're beginning to rollout of New York City transit and will launch in Chicago later this year. In China, Apple Pay launched the payment card for Didi the world's largest ride hailing provider. As I've said before, transit integration is a major driver of a broader digital wallet adoption, and we're going to keep up this push to help users leave their wallet at home in more and more instances. On a related note, thousands of Apple employees are using Apple Card every day in our beta test, and we plan to begin the rollout of Apple Card in August. As I mentioned at the outset, it was another sensational quarter for Wearables, with growth accelerating to well over 50%. We had great results for Apple Watch, which set a new June quarter revenue record and is reaching millions of new users. Over 75% of customers buying Apple Watch in the June quarter were buying their first Apple Watch. We continue to see phenomenal demand for AirPods. And when you tally up the last four quarters, our wearables business is now bigger than 60% of the companies in the Fortune 500. We had great performance from iPad, with revenue of over $5 billion, and growth driven by iPad Pro and by strong customer response to the new iPad Mini and iPad Air. This was our third consecutive quarter of growth, and with revenue up 15% year-to-date, we feel great about where we're headed with iPad. With our current lineup of iPad, iPad Mini, iPad Air, and iPad Pro, we've got the perfect device for everyone from young learners to professionals. We were also very happy with double-digit revenue growth from Mac, fueled by a strong performance of MacBook Air and MacBook Pro. Looking forward, there's an enormous amount to be excited about for Mac. On the heels of our Mac mini and iMac updates earlier in the fiscal year, we brought significant updates to the bulk of our notebook lineup in the last couple of months. We now have a $999 MacBook Air that is killer for college students. And for our pro users, who push the limits of what a Mac can do, we were thrilled to unveil the most powerful Mac ever, the new Mac Pro and the all new Pro Display XDR, which will be available this fall. They're designed for maximum performance, expansion and configurability and at breakthrough pricing and they're the most powerful tools Apple has ever put in the hands of pro customers. What's more, the Mac ecosystem as a whole is about to get a big boost. At our recent Worldwide Developers Conference, we announced a game-changing tool to help developers easily adapt their iOS and iPadOS apps for the Mac. I'll have a bit more to say on that in a moment. I'd like to provide some color on our performance in Greater China, where we saw significant improvement compared to the first half of fiscal 2019 and return to growth in constant currency. We experienced noticeably better year-over-year comparisons for our iPhone business there than we saw in the last two quarters and we had sequential improvement in the performance of every category. The combined effects of government stimulus, consumer response to trade-in programs, financing offers, and other sales initiatives and growing engagement with the broader Apple ecosystem had a positive effect. We were especially pleased with a double-digit increase in services driven by strong growth from the App Store in China. Turning to the future. Last week we announced an agreement with Intel to acquire the majority of its smartphone modem business. This is our second-largest acquisition by dollars and our largest ever in terms of staff. We're looking forward to welcoming all of them to Apple. We see this as a great opportunity to work with some of the leading talents in this field, to grow our portfolio of wireless technology patents to over 17,000, to expedite our development of our future products and to further our long-term strategy of owning and controlling the primary technologies behind the products that we make. We also had our best WWDC ever last month, packed with announcements of great new features coming this fall across our four software platforms making them more powerful, more personal and more private. For iPhone users, iOS 13 will take on a dramatic new look with Dark Mode, while delivering major updates to the apps you use every day, including photos, camera and maps. iOS 13 offers great new ways to help you manage your privacy and security, including Sign On with Apple, which uses Face ID or Touch ID to quickly sign into apps and Web sites without sharing your personal information. And improvements across the entire system will make iPhone even faster and more delightful to use than ever before. For the first time, iPad is getting its own version of iOS, called iPadOS, a strategic step forward that takes the iPad experience to a whole new level. The redesigned home screen, powerful new multitasking tools and deeper integration with Apple Pencil take productivity and creativity further, including using your iPad as an extended and interactive second monitor for your Mac. For Apple TV, tvOS 13 will make the big-screen experience even more personal. With a redesigned home screen and multi-user support, everyone in the family can get a more engaging and tailored experience with their favorite TV shows, movies, sports and news, along with Apple Music, photos and videos in iCloud, and an App Store with thousands of great games and apps. watchOS 6 is a major step forward in helping Apple Watch users stay healthy, active and connected. Apple Watch now has a dedicated App Store that users can access directly from the device and new watch faces, Siri enhancements, and music and audio features make Apple Watch more useful than ever. And of course, we continue to innovate on Apple Watch's promise to be an intelligent guardian for your health. watchOS 6 includes powerful new features like notifications that warn about high decibel noise to protect your hearing and cycle tracking to aid in women's health care decisions. In the June quarter, we expanded the availability of the ECG app and a regular rhythm notifications to five additional European countries and added Canada and Singapore just last week, making them available in 31 countries and regions around the world, with more to come later this year. We're very proud of the muscle we've built in bringing regulated products like these to market. This is an important competency that creates exciting opportunities for us moving forward. As I noted earlier, we believe macOS Catalina will be a breakthrough in the Mac ecosystem. A new tool included in macOS Catalina called Mac Catalyst gives developers a major head start in bringing their iOS apps to the Mac. Thousands of developers are already using it to bring their apps to the Mac ecosystem and we expect to see a wave of popular apps arriving for the Mac as early as this fall. Again, it's worth taking a step back and digesting the bigger picture here. These updates are the latest steps in a broader strategic effort to make the user experience across iOS, macOS, iPadOS, watchOS and tvOS more effortless and more intuitive. Apple is alone in offering this kind of value and ecosystem to its customers. And these devices and their platforms are unmatched in their ease-of-use, their seamlessness and their privacy and security. And while providing these things, we've created a dynamic environment where developers benefit greatly from creating for and distributing on these platforms. And our customers, of course, benefit greatly from access to all this creativity and innovation. We also unveiled other exciting technologies to make it easier and faster for developers to create powerful new apps. SwiftUI provides an intuitive new framework for building sophisticated user interfaces across our software platforms using simple easy-to-use code. Core ML 3 supports the acceleration of more types of advanced real-time machine learning models, and Create ML lets developers build machine learning models without writing code. We have the world's largest augmented reality enabled platform and thousands of they ARKit-enabled applications in the App Store. Building on this strategy, and our momentum in this area, we introduced three new AR-based technologies. ARKit 3 uses on device, real-time machine learning to recognize the human form and integrates people seamlessly into AR experiences. RealityKit is a new developer framework built from the ground up to provide all the tools and technologies required to make AR objects virtually lifelike. And Reality Composer brings AR content creation to tens of millions of developers who have no 3D experience. Our developers are already running with these new technologies and we think our customers are going to love some of the apps that these creators have in store in the months ahead. On so many fronts there's an enormous amount to look forward to over the next few months, including the launch of new services like Apple Arcade, Apple TV+, and Apple Card. And without giving too much away, we have several new products that we can't wait to share with you. Until then, thanks for joining us today. And for more details on the

Maestri: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon everyone. We're happy to report a June quarter revenue record of $53.8 billion, up 1% year-over-year. We return to growth in spite of a difficult foreign exchange environment around the world, which impacted our year-over-year growth rate by 300 basis points. We set June quarter revenue records in the Americas, in Japan and the rest of Asia Pacific and as Tim mentioned earlier all our geographic segments grew in constant currency. Overall, products revenue was $42.4 billion, down 2% year-over-year, which is significantly better than the 8% decline in products revenue that we experienced during the first half of the fiscal year. Product categories outside of iPhone grew 20%, with strong results in Wearables, Mac and iPad. Services revenue grew 13% to a new all-time record of $11.5 billion. Excluding the one-time item, we highlighted a year ago in connection with the final resolution of various lawsuits, services revenue growth was 15% and 18% in constant currency terms. On a geographic basis, we saw marked improvement in our year-over-year comparisons from emerging markets relative to the first half of this fiscal year, particularly in the BRIC countries, where year-over-year performance went from a 25% revenue decline in the first half to 3% growth in the June quarter. We set June quarter revenue records in several major developed markets, including the U.S., Canada, Germany, France, Japan, Australia and Korea. In emerging markets, we returned to growth in Mainland China, grew strong double digits in India and Brazil and we set new Q3 records in Thailand, Vietnam and the Philippines. Company gross margin was 37.6%, flat sequentially and in line with our guidance. Products gross margin was 30.4% down about 80 basis points sequentially due to seasonal loss of leverage and product mix partially offset by favorable cost. Services gross margin was 64.1%, up 30 basis points sequentially, primarily due to a favorable mix. Net income was $10 billion, diluted earnings per share were $2.18 and operating cash flow was $11,600,000,000. Let me get into more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue was $26 billion, down 12% compared to a year ago. This was significantly better year-over-year performance than last quarter's 17% decline, with sequential improvement in year-over-year comparisons in 15 of our top 20 markets. Our active installed base of iPhone continued to grow to a new all time high in each of our geographic segments and in the U.S., the latest survey of consumers from 451 Research, indicates iPhone customer satisfaction of 99% for iPhone 10R, iPhone 10S and 10S Max combined. Among business buyers who plan to purchase smartphones in the September quarter, 83% plan to purchase iPhones. Turning to services, we reached an all-time revenue record in spite of foreign exchange headwinds with double-digit growth from the App Store, Apple Music, cloud services, and AppleCare, and triple digit growth from Apple Pay and our App Store search ad business. All geographic segments had double-digit growth in services revenue and set new June quarter records with all-time records in the Americas and Rest of Asia Pacific. In total, services accounted for 21% of Apple revenue and 36% of gross margin dollars. Customer engagement in our ecosystem continues to grow. The number of transacting accounts on our digital content stores reached a new all time high in the June quarter and the number of paid accounts grew strong double digits compared to last year. We now have over 420 million paid subscriptions across the services on our platforms and we are well on our way to our goal of surpassing the 500 million mark during 2020. On the App Store, our growth accelerated sequentially. Our subscription business continues to grow strongly and is extremely diversified across many categories such as entertainment, lifestyle, photo and video and music. Third-party subscription revenue grew by over 40% and across all third-party subscription apps, the largest accounted for only 0.25% of total services revenue. Among our many services records, it was our best quarter ever for AppleCare. We are seeing an increase in service contract attach rates and are expanding distribution of AppleCare through our partners. We also recently expanded our authorized service provider network and nearly 1000 Best Buy stores across the U.S. are now offering expert service and repairs for Apple products. This expansion provides customers with an even more convenient access to repairs using parts certified for safety, quality and reliability. In addition to Apple retail stores there are over 1800 third-party Apple authorized service providers in the U.S., which is 3x as many locations as three years ago. Next, I'd like to talk about the Mac. Revenue was $5.8 billion, up 11% compared to last year. Mac revenue grew in 4 of our 5 geographic segments and set June quarter records in the U.S., Europe and Japan, as our overall market performance significantly outpaced the global PC industry. Nearly half of the customers purchasing Macs during the quarter were new to Mac, with revenue growing in both developed and emerging markets and the active installed base of Macs again reached a new all time high. We also had great results for iPad, with $5 billion in revenue, up 8%. iPad revenue grew in all 5 of our geographic segments, with a Q3 revenue record in Mainland China and double-digit growth in emerging markets. In total, over half of the customers purchasing iPads during the June quarter were new to iPad and the iPad active installed base also reached a new all time high. The most recent surveys from 451 Research measured a 94% customer satisfaction rating for iPad from consumers and among business customers who plan to purchase tablets in the September quarter, 75% plan to purchase iPads. Wearables, home and accessories revenue accelerated across all our geographic segments, growing 48% to over $5.5 billion and setting a June quarter record. This growth was fueled primarily by the strong performance of our wearables business, which was up well over 50% and has become the size of a Fortune 200 company over the last 12 months. In addition, we generated double-digit revenue growth from Apple TV and accessories during the quarter. Our retail and online stores produce their best June quarter revenue ever, with double-digit revenue growth across Apple Watch, iPad, Mac and accessories. Our trade-in program is showing great momentum, with more than 5x the number of iPhones traded in compared to a year ago. We opened stunning new stores in the Carnegie Library in Washington D.C. and the busy Shinji District in Taipei as well as a beautiful new location in the Dallas Galleria. We ended the quarter with 506 physical stores in 22 countries alongside our online store presence in 35 countries. In the enterprise market, we are gaining traction with our strategy of transforming major industries by expanding our leading positions in key functional areas to grow our reach and modernize customer and employee experiences. In the financial services industry, 90 of the largest 100 banks by assets size are deploying Apple products to improve efficiency and effectiveness across their organizations. iPhone and iPad are overwhelmingly the preferred mobile devices for bankers on the go. For example, 60% of the biggest banks are supporting iPads for wealth managers. In retail banking, two-thirds of top banks are deploying iPad for branch transformation and modernizing legacy interfaces with a unified iPad experience. One of the world's largest banks created an iPad suite that reduced customer on-boarding time from more than an hour to just 12 minutes. Bank branch employees are also using Apple Watch for communication and notifications and Apple TV for customer presentations from iPads using AirPlay. Financial institutions also tell us that they receive positive feedback from leveraging Apple solutions for direct customer engagement. American Express, Credit Suisse, Discover and T.D. Ameritrade have launched Apple Business Chat as a dynamic way to support and interact with customers. The intuitive interface of messages on iOS enables rich communication between customers and contact center staff. T.D. Ameritrade has also become the first brokerage in the world to enable immediate funding of accounts using Apple Pay, eliminating the 2 to 3 business days it used to take to fund accounts by wire transfer. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with almost $211 billion in cash plus marketable securities. We retired $3 billion of term debt and reduced commercial paper by $2 billion during the quarter, leaving us with total debt of $108 billion. As a result, net cash was $102 billion at the end of the quarter and we continue on our path to reaching a net cash neutral position over time. We returned over $21 billion to shareholders during the quarter, including $17 billion through open-market repurchases of almost 88 million Apple shares and $3.6 billion in dividends and equivalents. As we move ahead into the September quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Nancy referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $61 million and $64 billion. This guidance includes almost $1 billion of year-over-year negative impact from foreign exchange. We expect gross margin to be between 37.5% and 38.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $8.7 billion and $8.8 billion. We expect OINE to be about 200 million and we expect our tax rate to be about 16.5%. Also, today our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.77 per share of common stock payable on August 15, 2019 to shareholders of record as of

Daryanani: Thanks a lot. Thanks for taking my question guys. I guess, two from me. First off, could you just talk about, when I think about the September quarter guide, it's implied I think up 16% or so sequentially. Historically, at least, in that guide has been in the 10% low double-digit kind of range. Just can you help us understand, what gives you the confidence for a better than seasonal guide in

Cook: Well, there are elements today that are not necessarily tethered to iPhone, right? We have other products where people are both purchasing things, they're watching Apple TV. We offer Apple Music on Android, and so there's a series of things that are outside of that. And so we'll see what we do in the future. I don't want to really get into that. But, more broadly, to answer your question about growth as we go forward, the way I see it is, we have the strongest hardware portfolio ever, we've got new products on the way, the pipeline is full of great new stuff both on the product and the services side. We're very fortunate and work very hard to have loyal customers and to continue attracting an impressive number of switchers. The installed base is growing, hit a new record, that's obviously good. And it hit a new record across all geographies and across all categories. And so, this is a really good thing. And we've got the Wearables area that is doing extremely well. We stuck with that when others perhaps didn't and really put a lot of energy into this and a lot of R&D and are in a very good position today to keep playing out what's next there. At the same time, on the market side, we have emerging markets where we have low penetration. And during the quarter tactically the emerging markets had a bit of a rebound. And in fact, on a constant currency basis, we actually grew slightly in emerging markets. We still declined on a reported basis. India bounced back. During the quarter, we returned to growth there. We're very happy with that. We grew in Brazil as well. We're also continuing to focus on the enterprise market. Luca mentioned some of this in his comments and we think that continues to be a big opportunity for us. And then, we've got lots of what I would call core technology kinds of things like augmented reality, where we're placing big bets and bet that we have a big future, in addition to the health kinds of things that may fall out of the watch. And so hopefully that kind of gives you a view over the total. And so, we're focusing on products and services and there will be some services that aren't hooked and some that are hooked not on current period sales mostly, very much services are rarely connected on that today or at least not a high percentage by any means there. They're more correlated to the active installed base and also the level of transacting customers that are there and the amount per customer, which relates also to the offering that we have.

Mohan: Yes. Thank you. Tim, the China trade situation remains sort of fluid over here and more recently you asked for some tariff exceptions were not granted those. How are you thinking about the longer-term footprint for manufacturing and can you talk about any potential alternatives that you've looked at and considered in moving parts of production potentially out of

Cook: Yes. I know there's been a lot of speculation around the topic of different moves and so forth. I wouldn't put a lot of stock into those, if I were you. The way I view this is, the vast majority of our products are kind of made everywhere. There's a significant level of content from the United States and a lot from Japan to Korea to China and the European Union also contributes a fair amount. And so, that's the nature of a global supply chain. Largely, I think that will carry the day in the future as well. In terms of the exclusions, we've been making the Mac Pro in the U.S., we want to continue doing that. And so, we're working and investing currently in capacity to do so, because we want to continue to be here. And so that's what's behind the exclusions.

Mohan: Okay. Thanks, Tim. And there is, Luca, maybe for you, there's been some significant destocking of inventory in the first calendar half of this year in iPhone. Can you comment about the broader channel inventory levels where you are in your typical ranges, especially given the comment around June iPhone sales being quite strong and do you expect anything atypical in channel inventory dynamics in the September quarter?

Maestri: Yes, Wamsi, as you know we're not getting into this topic very much. But, I think I can give you some color here. You know that in general, we decrease our inventory during the March quarter and the June quarter. That has been traditionally what we've done. This year, we reduced channel inventory for iPhone slightly more than last year and that is true in total and it's true for Greater China as well. So, we feel very good about our channel inventory ranges as we get into the

Suva: Thanks very much. The first question is probably to Tim and second one for Luca. I will ask them at the same time, so you can continue which other one you want to answer, first or second. While the first one is for Tim, regarding the installed base comment you've made, which is quite encouraging, but yet when you look at the iPhone revenue year-over-year the past several quarters have been down. Can you help us bridge the gap of, how is the installed base growing? Is it mostly because secondary users are the new ones coming into the system as people are holding more phones longer? And what does that user typically bring in with them or something unique relative to what we historically know? And then for Luca, you've been investing a lot, a lot, lot and a lot of these services are now coming to pass whether it be AppleCare, Apple Cloud, all these wearables and soon Apple Pay and Arcade. Are we at a point where now a lot of harvesting is going to happen or do you kind of continue this relatively same investment that you've been doing for the future strategy.

Cook: We don't comment on future products. With respect to 5G, I think most people would tell you, we're in sort of the extremely early innings of it. And even more so on a global basis. So, we couldn't be more proud of what our lineup is and we're excited about the great pipeline of both hardware and software and we wouldn't trade our position for anyone's.

Cook: Thank you, Nancy. Good afternoon, and thanks to all of you for joining us, especially those of you listening in on our new noise-cancelling AirPods Pro which are available beginning today. This was Apple's highest revenue in a September quarter ever, and I want to take you through some of the highlights before we get into greater detail on the conclusion of a remarkable fiscal 2019 for Apple. We achieved revenue of $64 billion in the quarter at the high end of our expectations, even in spite of a predicted foreign exchange drag of almost $1 billion. Geographically, we set new Q4 revenue records in the Americas and rest of Asia-Pacific and saw further improvement in our revenue trends in Greater China. In iPhone, where customers have only begun to get their hands on the strongly popular and unmatched iPhone 11 and iPhone 11 Pro models, our year-over-year performance continue to improve, more on that in a moment. Outside of iPhone, our September quarter revenue was up 17%. We reached a new all-time high for services with growth accelerating to 18%. We generated well over 50% revenue growth from Wearables, and I am thrilled to say that we set Q4 records for Wearables in each and every market we track. We’ve got a lot to cover, so let's dive right into the details. iPhone revenue in the September quarter was $33 billion. This 9% decline over last year is a significant improvement over the 15% decline we saw across the first three quarters. The significant upswing in demand in the final part of the quarter is mirrored in the overwhelmingly positive reviews, customer feedback and in-store response we've seen for this new generation of devices, not to mention a wave of the best photos you've seen from a smartphone. iPhone 11 features the Apple-designed A13 Bionic the fastest most powerful chip ever in a smartphone plus an all new dual camera system and even longer all day battery life all wrapped in six great new colors. Since its launch, the iPhone 11 has quickly become our best-selling iPhone. iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max deliver even more advanced performance for users who want the very best out of their smartphone. The new Super Retina XDR display is the brightest ever in an iPhone, and the new triple camera system provides a pro level photography experience with an ultra-wide, wide and telephoto camera. All three of our new iPhones feature night mode delivering huge improvements to photo capture in low light environments either indoors or outdoors. They also produce the highest quality video in a smartphone supporting 4K video with extended dynamic range for more highlight detail and cinematic video stabilization. iOS 13 is driving user experience forward across the iPhone family with a bold new look in dark mode, major updates to the apps our customers use every day, such as photos and maps, new ways to help protect their privacy with sign-in with Apple and performance improvements across the entire system. For Services, revenue was $12.5 billion, that's up 18% over last year and it beats the previous record set in the June quarter by more than $1 billion. This isn't a local phenomenon. We saw double-digit services revenue growth and all-time records in all five of our geographic segments, and it wasn't a narrow success either. We established new all-time highs for multiple services categories including the App Store, AppleCare, Music, cloud services and our App Store search ad business. We are well on our way to accomplishing our goal of doubling our fiscal year '16 Services revenue during 2020. I want to touch on a number of services in brief. We had all-time record revenues from payment services. For Apple Pay, revenue and transactions more than doubled year-over-year with over 3 billion transactions in the September quarter exceeding PayPal's number of transactions and growing four times as fast. Apple Pay is now live in 49 markets around the world with over 6,000 issuers on the platform. We believe that Apple Pay offers the best possible mobile payment experience and the safest, most secure solution on the market. We're glad that 1000s of banks around the world participate. Apple Card launched in the US in August, and we've been thrilled by the positive reception we've seen. Users can apply for Apple Card through the wallet app on iPhone in minutes and start using it right away in stores, in apps and on websites. They've told us they love Apple Card's simplicity, privacy, security and transparency, which has helped them make healthier financial choices. Apple Card has absolutely no fees and major apps and retailers like Uber, Uber Eats, Walgreens, Duane Reade, and T-Mobile have already joined to offer 3% daily cash back on Apple Card transactions. And I am very pleased to announce today that later this year, we are adding another great feature to Apple Card. Customers will be able to purchase their new iPhone and pay for it over it over 24 months with zero interest. And they will continue to enjoy all the benefits of Apple Card, including 3% cash back on the total cost of their iPhone with absolutely no fees and the ability to simply manage their payments right in the Apple Wallet app on iPhone. We think these features appeal broadly to all iPhone customers, and we believe this has been the most successful launch of a credit card in United States ever. Last month, we launched Apple Arcade, our groundbreaking game subscription service offering an all new way for the whole family to enjoy games online or offline. Apple Arcade's subscribers get unlimited access to a curated selection of games from many of the most innovative developers in the world with almost 100 new titles playable across iPhone, iPad, iPod touch, Mac and Apple TV today and more are being added all the time. Customer feedback to date has been overwhelmingly positive, and we're very excited for the future of the service. We're also thrilled to be working with Oprah Winfrey to bring Oprah's Book Club to Apple Books connecting a community of readers worldwide to important stories by today's most thought-provoking authors. Together, we envision a vibrant global book club that has the power to bring the world together through reading. We've also expanded the reach of Apple News+ beyond the United States and Canada to readers in Australia and the United Kingdom, bringing together popular publications, such as the Times of London, the Australian and Hello Magazine, in addition to major publications like The Wall Street Journal, The LA Times, The New Yorker, People, GQ and much more. And rounding at our newest services just two days from now, we're launching the hotly anticipated Apple TV+ in over 100 countries and regions. It's the first all original video subscription service, which shows from the best, most ambitious and most creative minds in the industry. One of the great parts of this jobs is that I've gotten to binge-watch almost all of them, and while I won't spoil anything, there is so much to look forward to here for lovers of great storytelling. We premiered shows like See and The Morning Show in LA and New York over the past couple of weeks, and the stage is set for a truly exciting debut. And we're pleased that customers who have purchased qualifying Apple devices starting September 10 can opt into 12 free months of Apple TV+. Turning to Wearables, we had amazing results, thanks to the phenomenal popularity of Apple Watch, AirPods and Beats products. As I said at the outset, we set Q4 revenue records for Wearables in every single market that we track around the world. In September, we launched Apple Watch Series 5 with the Always-On Retina display, that means you never have to pause a workout or task to raise or tap the display. New location features help users better navigate their day while international emergency calling allows them to call emergency services directly from Apple Watch in over 150 countries even without an iPhone nearby. And combined with the power of watchOS 6, users are empowered to take charge of their health and fitness with new features like Cycle Tracking, the Noise app, Activity Trends. The ECG app now available in 32 markets including India has become a widely celebrated illustration of Apple's commitment to your health giving users the ability to document and monitor the functioning of their heart and provide critical data to their doctors. We're deepening Apple's commitment to medical research. We announced a new Research app paired with three unprecedented medical studies spanning Hearing, Heart and Movement and Women's Health. We are collaborating with leading health institutions to reach more participants than has ever been possible enabling them to contribute to potential medical discoveries and help create the next generation of innovative health products. Leveraging the devices customers use every day and world-class security and privacy, we hope to democratize medical research and bring everyone to the table to make the next big breakthroughs possible. Turning to iPad, we generated 17% growth driven by iPad Pro in the ongoing momentum of our wider line-up. In September, we introduced the seventh-generation iPad bringing more screen area and support for the full-sized Smart Keyboard to our most popular, most affordable iPad. For the first time, we also released iPadOS built on the same foundation as iOS but with powerful apps designed for iPads large multi-touch display, letting users multitask with intuitive gestures and drag and drop of file with the fingertip. For Mac, we generated $7 billion in revenue. We had a tough comparison to last year's fourth quarter when we updated both models of MacBook Pro, but for fiscal 2019 overall, we generated the highest annual revenue ever from our Mac business. In July, we updated our Mac portables with great pricing for students and MacBook Air in particular has been a hit in the back-to-school season. Earlier this month, we released macOS Catalina with all new entertainment apps, the innovative sidecar feature that uses iPad to expand the Mac workspace and new accessibility tools that enable users to control their Mac entirely with their voice. Catalina also brings the Apple Arcade experience to the Mac and we have already seen some amazing third-party developers bring their iPad apps to the Mac App Store with Mac Catalyst including Twitter, Post-it and more. And for our pro customers who push the limits of what Mac can do, we're very excited about the upcoming launch of our newly redesigned Mac Pro this fall, which we are proud to be manufacturing in Austin, Texas. Pulling back the lens from a single quarter, we are incredibly proud of our accomplishments over the course of a remarkable fiscal 2019, a year where we crossed $100 billion in revenue in the United States for the first time. We introduce new services from Apple Card to Apple TV+ and generated over $46 billion in total services revenue, setting new yearly services records in all five of our geographic segments and driving our Services business to the size of a Fortune 70 company. We delivered incredible new hardware in all our device categories. Our Wearables business showed explosive growth and generated more annual revenue than two-thirds of the companies in the Fortune 500. And we set a yearly revenue record for Mac. All told, outside of iPhone, our revenue grew by $17 billion to almost a $118 billion. Our overall success was achieved widely across our markets with annual revenue records in the U.S., Canada, Brazil, the UK, Germany, France, Italy, Poland, Korea, Malaysia, the Philippines and Vietnam. And as we head into the holiday season, we have an enormous amount to look forward to. We believe that we lead in innovation because we lead with our values. At the time of urgency and action on climate change, we continue to drive breakthroughs in clean power sustainable materials and device recycling. By running a 100% of our global operations on renewable energy and challenging our entire network of suppliers do the same, we are driving a virtuous cycle of demand for clean sources of power. And we see the award Apple recently received from the United Nation's Global Climate Action program as a mandate to deepen this vital work. We continue to invent and improve on cutting edge renewable materials, including the 100% recycled aluminum alloy found in many of our products, and we've added rare earth elements to our list of recycled materials with the introduction of iPhone 11. We're disassembling, recycling or refurbishing millions of devices every year with the help of Daisy, our recycling robot, and we're pushing the entire global supply chain toward recycled or renewable materials. We're driving access to critical coding skills development to educators and students through programs such as our teaching coding academies and our free everyone can code curriculum. We continue to put user privacy at the center of everything that we do and we know that Apple is strongest when our commitment to diversity and inclusion brings all voices to the table. I'd like to thank our customers, our developers, our business partners and our employees for making fiscal 2019 such a success, and I look forward to another great year in 2020. Now for more details on our

Paxton: Thank you very much for the kind remarks, Luca. It's obviously been a great privilege for me to engage with so many investors and analysts on behalf of Apple over the last couple of decades, and of course it's been an extreme pleasure to work alongside with some of the brilliant people here at Apple on a day to day basis. But let's get to the business at hand for the 93rd time, and open the call to questions. We ask that you limit yourself to two questions.

Cook: I think we, because the Watch is relatively young. We haven't seen enough upgrade cycles to really establish a pattern as yet. And as I've mentioned before, 3 out of 4 customers buying an Apple Watch currently or last quarter I should say were buying an Apple Watch for the first time. And so there is still a very, very large new to Apple Watch in this regard. I do think the upgrade market will look at larger over time, but just don't have a current view as to -- how often and so forth. On the AirPods we're anxious to see the customers for the new AirPods Pro. But I would guess that one particularly in the early going will be people that have AirPods today and want to have -- also have a pair for the times that they need noise cancellation.

Cook: Thanks, Tejas. Good afternoon, and thanks to all of you for joining us. We're thrilled to report Apple's biggest quarter ever, which set new all-time records in both revenue and earnings. We generated revenue of $91.8 billion, which is above the high-end of our guidance range, with revenue growth accelerating for the third consecutive quarter. Geographically, we set all-time records in the Americas, Europe and rest of Asia Specific and saw Greater China return to growth. Our record performance was fueled by iPhone where December quarter revenue was up 8% year-over-year and by our fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth outside of iPhone including a new all-time record for services and another blowout quarter for Wearables. Our active installed base of devices has now surpassed 1.5 billion, up over 100 million in the last 12 months alone, reaching a new all-time high for each of our main product categories and geographic segments. Not only is our large and growing installed base a powerful testament to the satisfaction, engagement and loyalty of our customers, but it's also fueling our growth across the board, particularly in services. Let’s take each category one by one. On iPhone, revenue in the December quarter was $56 billion, again that’s up 8% over a year ago, thanks to the exceptional demand for the iPhone 11, iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11 Pro Max. In fact, iPhone 11 was our top-selling model every week during the December quarter and the three new models were our three most popular iPhones. We had double-digit growth in many developed markets, including the U.S., the UK, France and Singapore, and also grew double digits in emerging markets led by strong performances in Brazil, Mainland China, India, Thailand, and Turkey. These new models are by far the best iPhones we've ever shipped with advance technologies and unprecedented leap in battery life to easily get through the day and our best-in-class camera experience. We have been wild with the photos customers have shared in our all-new Night Mode photo challenge this month. Turning to services. Q1 revenue reached $12.7 billion, an all-time record, growing 17% over last year. Once again, we saw double-digit growth in all five of our geographic segments and established new all-time records from multiple categories including cloud services, music, payment services and our App Store search ad business, as well as setting a December quarter record for the App Store and AppleCare. 2019 was a historic year for our services business, and I’d like to touch on some highlights. For the App Store, 2020 started off strong with customers spending a new single day record $386 million on New Year's Day alone, a 20% increase over last year. Apple Arcade, our new game subscription service has been fast off the blocks with a catalog of over 100 new and exclusive games you won’t find anywhere else, all playable across Apple devices with new games and expansions added every month. Apple TV+ is off to a rousing start, and I want to congratulate the entire team at The Morning Show for their multiple Golden Globe nomination. Jennifer Aniston on her Screen Actors Guild award and Billy Crudup on his Critics Choice award. We continue to focus on telling stories that matter, like Little America, which recently premiered to widespread critical acclaim with much more great content still to come. Apple News now draws over 100 million monthly active users in the U.S., UK, Australia and Canada, and provides a curated and personalized experience using on-device intelligence to recommend stories. Apple News+ continues to add new titles, offering subscribers seamless access to the world’s top publications across all of their devices. For Apple Pay, revenue and transactions more than doubled year-over-year with the run rate exceeding 15 billion transactions a year. Apple Pay transit support expanded with customers paying for journeys on transport for London more easily with Apple Pay Express Transit. And in spring of 2020, iPhone and Apple Watch customers will be able to simply tap to ride trains and buses in even more cities including Shenzhen and Guangzhou. We are thrilled with the continued growth at Apple Card. And last month, the customers began using Apple Card monthly installments at Apple retail and online to purchase new iPhones and pay for them over 24 months. We see great promise for these recently launched services, and we're optimistic about what we've got in the pipeline for each of them. Now, turning to Wearables. We had another incredible quarter, setting an all-time record in virtually every market we track around the world, and this product category is now the size of a Fortune 150 company. Demand for AirPods continues to be phenomenal, particularly for our recently launched AirPods Pro, our new addition to the AirPods family that features active noise cancellation. Apple Watch had a great start to fiscal 2020, setting an all-time revenue record during the quarter. It continues to have a profound impact on our customers’ lives and it continues to further its reach as over 75% of the customers purchasing Apple Watch during the quarter were new to Apple Watch. Both AirPods and Apple Watch were must have holiday gifts, helping drive unprecedented results for the category, even as we face supply constraints for Apple Watch Series 3 and AirPods Pro. Mac and iPad generated $7.2 billion and $6 billion in revenue, respectively, and the high level of customer satisfaction and loyalty for both products drove the active installed base of both Mac and iPad to new records in all geographic segments. For iPad, we saw growth in key emerging markets like Mexico, India, Turkey, Poland, Thailand, Malaysia, the Philippines and Vietnam, with our current line-up of iPad Pro, iPad Air, iPad Mini and iPad, along with the new iPadOS will give the customers an unparalleled tablet experience integrating hardware, software and services in a way that only Apple can. This was also a very exciting quarter for the Mac as we launched our most powerful notebook ever. The 16-inch MacBook Pro, as well as Mac Pro and Pro Display XDR, the most powerful tools Apple has ever put into hands of Pros. And we’ve already seen a strong response from the Pro community from developers, photographers and music producers to filmmakers and scientists who rely on the Mac to create their life’s best work. We also want to take a moment to congratulate all the Grammy winning and nominated artists this past weekend who rely on Logic Pro 10 and the Mac to create incredible music we all love. I want to call out and celebrate the exceptional work of our retail and online teams. This quarter, we opened a beautiful new store in Kawasaki, Japan. And exciting things are taking place inside each and every store. Thanks in part to a doubling in iPhone trade-ins versus last year, our retail and online stores set an all-time record and delivered strong double-digit growth in iPhone. We see a very bright future for these efforts and we continue to innovate to ensure that everyone who visits an Apple retail location has a great experience. We began 2020 with our greatest product line-up ever and we are only deepening our commitment to do our part to make the world a better place. In November, we released a completely redesigned Everyone Can Code curriculum to help introduce more elementary and middle school students to the world of coding. The new curriculum includes even more resources for teachers, a brand new guide for students and updates Swift Coding Club materials. Today, millions of students in more than 5,000 schools worldwide use Everyone Can Code curriculum to bring their ideas to life and develop important skills, including creativity, collaboration, and problem-solving. November also saw the launch of our new research app, the latest in our ongoing effort to put the future of health in the hands of every user. Customers in the U.S. can enroll in three landmark multiyear health studies that we’re undertaking with leading academic and research institutions. The Apple Women's Health Study, the Apple Heart And Movement Study and the Hearing Study, as in everything we do, we build user privacy into the research app from the ground up. This quarter we also announced a $2.5 billion plan to help address the housing availability and affording crisis in our home state of California. We feel a great responsibility to help the region we have always called home stay vibrant and to ensure that it remains a great place for everyone to live and raise a family, including those who do so much to serve the community, like firefighters and teachers. In much more recent news, we’re closely following the development of the coronavirus. We're donating two groups that are working to contain the outbreak, we're working closely with our Apple team members and partners in the affected areas, and our thoughts are with all of those affected across the region. As we close the books on a record-breaking December quarter, we are already well underway on some new and exciting developments for the future. Apple’s strength will always be its boundless creativity and innovation, and this year will be no different. But for now, for more details on the results,

Maestri: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. Our business and financial performance in the December quarter were exceptional as we set new all-time records for revenue, net income and earnings per share. Revenue for the quarter was $91.8 billion, up $7.5 billion or 9% from a year ago, in spite of a $1 billion headwind from foreign exchange. Geographically, we established all-time revenue records in many major developed and emerging markets including, among others, the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Brazil, the UK, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Poland, Thailand, Malaysia and Vietnam. Products revenue was $79.1 billion, up 8% as iPhone returned to growth, and we had incredibly strong results in Wearables where we set all-time records for both Apple Watch and AirPods. Services revenue grew 17% to a new all-time record, $12.7 billion with double-digit growth in every geographic segment and new all-time records across our portfolio. Company gross margin was 38.4%, up 40 basis points sequentially, driven by leverage from higher revenue, despite of a negative 60 basis-point impact from foreign exchange. Products gross margin was 34.2%, up 260 basis points sequentially, thanks to leverage and favorable mix. Services gross margin was 64.4%, up 30 basis points sequentially, driven by favorable mix. Our reported tax rate for the quarter was 14.2%. Before discrete items, the rate was 16.5%, exactly in line with our guidance. A favorable one-time item impacted the rate by 230 basis points. Net income was an all-time record of $22.2 billion, up $2.3 billion or 11% over last year. Diluted EPS was also an all-time record at $4.99, up 19% and operating cash flow was a very strong $30.5 billion, an improvement of $3.8 billion over a year ago. Let me get into more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue of $56 billion grew 8% year-over-year, as we saw a great customer response to the launch of our newest iPhones. We set all-time revenue records in several countries, including the U.S. Mexico, the UK, France, Spain, Poland, Thailand, Malaysia and Vietnam. Our active installed base of iPhones has reached an all-time high and is growing in each of our geographic segments. In the U.S., the latest survey of consumers from 451 Research indicates iPhone customer satisfaction of 98% for iPhone 11, 11 Pro and 11 Pro Max combined. Among business buyers planning to purchase smartphones in the next quarter, 84% plan to purchase iPhones. Turning to services. We set an all-time revenue record of $12.7 billion with double-digit growth in all of our five geographic segments. As Tim mentioned, we established new all-time records for Apple Music, cloud services, payment services and our App Store search ad business and December quarter records for the App Store and AppleCare. We are well on our way to accomplishing our goal of doubling our fiscal year ‘16 services revenue during 2020. We've actually already reached that goal on a run-rate basis with the results of the December quarter. Customer engagement in our ecosystem continues to grow and the number of both, transacting and paid accounts on our digital content stores reached a new all-time high with paid accounts growing double digits in all of our geographic segments. We now have over 480 million paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, up 120 million from a year ago. And at this point, we expect to hit our goal of surpassing the 500 million mark already during the March quarter. Given the tremendous momentum we're experiencing across our services offerings, we're increasing our target for paid subscriptions and aim to reach 600 million before the end of calendar 2020. App Store revenue grew strong double digits, thanks to robust customer demand for both in-app purchases and subscriptions. Our third-party subscription business grew across multiple categories and increased almost 40% year-over-year. Our first-party subscription services also continued to perform extremely well. Apple Music set an all-time revenue record, offering a catalog of over 60 million songs to our customers. iCloud also generated an all-time revenue record, growing very-strong double digits while offering our customers a safe, secure and seamless experience across all their devices. It was a December quarter record for AppleCare, thanks to strong service agreement attach rates and expanded distribution, many of our partners have come to appreciate the strength of the AppleCare brand and our ability to deliver the very-best service and support in the world. That value resonates with both our partners and our customers, and we are very happy to see that quality of experience delivered to more and more of our users. Next, I’d like to talk about Mac and iPad. Mac revenue was $7.2 billion and iPad revenue was $6 billion. Both products had a difficult year-over-year comparison due to the launches of MacBook Air here, Mac mini and iPad Pro during the December quarter a year ago and the subsequent channels fill. Despite the tough compare, on a demand basis, our performance for both Mac and iPad was around even to last year. Importantly, around half of the customers purchasing Macs and iPads around the world during the quarter, were new to that product. And the active installed base of both Mac and iPad reached a new all-time high. The most recent surveys from 451 Research measured a 93% customer satisfaction rating for iPad from consumers and 92% from businesses, and among both consumers and businesses were planning to purchase tablets in the March quarter 78% plan to purchase iPads. Wearables, home and accessories established a new all-time record with revenue of $10 billion, up 37% year-over-year with very strong double-digit performance across all five geographic segments and growth across Wearables, accessories and home. We set all-time records for Wearables in virtually every market we track, even as we experience some product shortages due to very strong customer demand for both Apple Watch and AirPods during the quarter. We also continued to see strong demand for our products in the enterprise market as our technology solutions enable businesses to do their best work. 100% of Fortune 500 companies in the healthcare sector use Apple technology in areas such as patient experience, clinical communications and nursing workflows, and we're also seeing smaller companies in this sector drive innovation with our technology and apps. One example is Gauss Surgical, which uses Core ML in iOS to more accurately estimate blood loss during child birth and surgery. This helps clinicians have more complete and timely information on whether a patient needs an intervention, which can impact both, clinical outcomes and costs. Another example is Butterfly Network, a medical imaging company, which makes handheld ultrasound device that connects to iPhone or iPad to enable clinicians to take an ultrasound anywhere at a cost that is dramatically lower than other solutions in the market today. Let me now turn to our cash positions. We ended the quarter with $207 billion in cash plus marketable securities. We issued a 2 billion euro-denominated green bond, retired $1 billion of maturing debt and reduced commercial paper by $1 billion during the quarter, leaving us with total debt of $108 billion. As a result, net cash was $99 billion at the end of the quarter and we maintained our target of reaching a net cash neutral position over time. We returned nearly $25 billion to shareholders during the December quarter. We began a $10 billion accelerated share repurchase program in November, resulting in the initial delivery and retirement of 30.4 million shares. We also repurchased 40 million Apple shares for $10 billion, through open market transactions, and we paid $3.5 billion in dividends and equivalents. As we have done for the last several years, we would share our plans for the next phase of our capital return program when we report results for the March quarter. Finally, as we move ahead into the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Tejas referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect revenue to be between $63 billion and $67 billion. The wider than usual revenue range comprehends uncertainty related to the recently unfolding public health situation in China. We expect gross margin to be between 38% and 39%. We expect OpEx to be between $9.6 billion and $9.7 billion. We expect OI&E to be about $250 million and we expect the tax rate to be about 16.5%. Also today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.77 per share of common stock, payable on February 13, 2020 to shareholders of record as of

Gala: Thank you, Luca. We ask that you limit yourself to two questions. Operator, may have the first question, please?

Cross: Thank you very much. I wanted to go back to revisit China. Tim, can you talk about what you are seeing in the region -- what you were seeing in the region prior to the health crisis? And then, can you also update us a bit in terms of your manufacturing strategy, dual-sourcing, geographic diversification, even with the region, just so we have some idea of how this will be managed?

Cook: Yes. Thanks,, Shannon. In terms of China, the results from last quarter, and then I will get into the coronavirus in a second. For the results from last quarter, we had double-digit growth for iPhone in Mainland China. So, that was an important change from where we've been running. We also had double-digit growth in services in Mainland China and we had extremely strong double-digit on Wearables. And so, really, there were a number of different factors in terms of the things that customers are responding to. iPhone 11 is doing well there, the product has been very well-received with its battery life and the camera is unbelievable. We also, as you probably know, have certain trading programs going and financing programs. These have also been well received. And so, it’s sort of the sum of all of this. And we are tracking quite a large percentage of new customers on products like the Mac. Three quarters of the customers buying a Mac in China are new, and nearly two-thirds of the customers buying iPad are new. So, it was a terrific quarter. We had three of the top four selling smartphones in urban China according to Kantar. In terms of the coronavirus, as I mentioned earlier, first and foremost, our thoughts are with all of those that are affected across the region. And as I've mentioned, we’re donating to groups that are working to contain the outbreak. We are also working very closely with our team and our partners in the affected areas, and we have limited travel to business critical situations as of last week. The situation is emerging and we're still gathering lots of data points and monitoring it very closely. As Luca had mentioned, we have a wider than usual revenue range for the second quarter due to the greater uncertainty. I'll talk about supply chain and customer demand some to give you some color. With respect to the supply chain, we do have some suppliers in the Wuhan area. All of these suppliers, they’re our ultimate sources, and we’re obviously working on mitigation plans to make up any expected production loss. We've factored best thinking and the guidance that we've provided you. With respect to supply sources that are outside the Wuhan area, the impact is less clear at this time. The reopening of those factories after Chinese New Year has been moved from the end of this month to February 10th, depending upon the supplier location, and we've attempted to account for this delayed start up through our larger range of outcomes that Luca mentioned earlier. With respect to customer demand and sales, we've currently closed one of our retail stores and a number of channel partners have also closed their store fronts. Many of the stores that remain opened have also reduced operating hours. We're taking additional precautions and frequently deep-cleaning our stores as well as conducting temperature checks for employees. While our sales within the Wuhan area itself are small, retail traffic has also been impacted outside of this area, across the country in the last few days. And again, we have attempted to account for this in our guidance range that we’ve provided you.

Cross: Yes. That was very helpful. Luca, maybe if you could just touch on from a gross margin from perspective, the commodity pricing environment and availability. Obviously, there has been some movement on DRAM and NAND. So, if you can talk about how you are thinking about inventory levels and managing that going forward?

Maestri: Yes. As I said earlier to the question around the gross margin guidance for the March quarter, we are seeing a benign commodity environment. Most commodities have been declining during the December quarter, and we expect the same to happen in the March quarter. As always, and as you probably know, we look at the way these prices move and at times when we feel it’s appropriate we buy certain commodities in advance.

Cook: Sorry. We don’t comment on future products. And so, I will try to sidestep a bit. With respect to 5G, I think it’s -- we're in the early innings of its deployment on a global basis. We obviously couldn’t be prouder of our lineup and are very excited about our pipeline as well and wouldn’t trade our position for anybody.

Nealy: So, we were seeing some signs of new spectrum being deployed for 5G deployments and even additional 4G capacity, and it’s already having a positive impact for handset upgrades to use that new capacity? Do you get the sense that wireless carriers are getting more incentivize to upgrade handsets to get a leverage out of these new network investments? How much might this be helping, and do you think it will continue to accelerate?

Cook: I think that we’ve had some great partners, not only in the U.S. but also around the world that are really helpful this quarter, as partners. And so, I think that probably a part of that is the level of investments they have. And then, a part of it is probably making sure that those customer stick with them in a environment where there's a lot of trading back and forth.

Nealy: Okay, great. And then, the comment that you made about capacity in the Wearables division with AirPods Pro and Apple Watch 3, what should we think about the timeline of when those capacity constraints might be alleviated? And will they come from capacity additions or the natural workout of unit shipments and something on the demand side?

Cook: I'm hopeful that the Series 3 will come in to balance during this quarter. On AirPods Pro, I don't have estimate for that for you. I just can't predict when at this point. We seem to be fairly substantially off their and we're working very hard to put in additional capacity.

Maestri: Yes. So, Japan was down 10% during the December quarter. It was primarily due to iPhone performance, which was challenged because there were some regulatory changes that took effect on the 1st of October where essentially the regulators decoupled the mobile phone pricing from the two-year contract and are capping the maximum amount of carrier discounts that can be made. At the same time, I would say, within a more difficult macro environment, iPhone did incredibly well during the quarter, six of the top seven selling smart models in Japan during the December quarter were iPhones. So, it was very strong performance by iPhone in a difficult environment. Also, in Japan, we had very strong double-digit growth from services, stronger than Company average; and very strong double-digit growth in Wearables, also stronger than Company average. So, we feel very good. Japan is a country where historically we’ve had great success. The customers are very loyal and very engaged and we have very strong position there, we feel we have a very good momentum.

Cook: Thanks, Tejas. Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. I hope you’re staying safe and well. Today Apple reports $58.3 billion in revenue, an all-time record for Services, and a quarterly record for Wearables, Home and Accessories. It was also a quarterly revenue record for Apple Retail powered by phenomenal growth in our online store. Amid the most challenging global environment in which we’ve ever operated our business, we’re proud to say that Apple grew during the quarter. But before we dive more deeply into the numbers, I want to speak just for a bit on COVID-19. This is something Apple has been contending with since January. And I think that how we have responded, what we have been inspired to do, tells an important story about Apple’s great durability as a business, and the enduring importance of our products in our customers’ lives. It also speaks to Apple’s unmatched capacity to be creative, to think always in terms of the long term and to forge ahead when others may feel an instinct to pull back. Before COVID-19 was on the horizon, we anticipated that Q2 was going to be a prolific and energetic period for Apple. And when the pandemic did strike, our teams not only succeeded in growing the business in introducing powerful new products, and in meeting our customers’ needs, but they also rose to the occasion in terms of meeting our broader obligations to the communities in which we live and work. Let’s look quickly across the business. At the same time that they were leaving no stone unturned to get our latest generation of devices manufactured and into our customers’ hands, our worldwide network of supply chain partners, logistics and operations folks in every part of the Company were also sourcing more than 30 million masks for frontline medical workers, ensuring they’re donated to places of greatest need in every region around the world. While our product teams were preparing to launch a new iPad Pro, Magic Keyboard, MacBook Air and the new iPhone SE, all of which have been very well received by reviewers and consumers alike, they were also working with our suppliers to design, test, manufacture and distribute more than 7.5 million face shields, and we continue to ship more than 1 million of these every week to the doctors, nurses and medical personnel on the frontlines. In a quarter where our Services teams achieved strong growth, which Luca will dig into in a minute, and which speaks to the real durability of our Services strategy, these teams were also putting COVID-19 front and center. As Apple News, reached 125 million monthly active users, we elevated trusted information from reliable sources through a special COVID-19 vertical. We let customers skip payments without incurring interest on Apple Card for March and April in light of financial hardship for many families. We worked with everyone from Oprah to Lady Gaga to inform, entertain and give back through Apple TV and services like FaceTime and Messages set new all-time records for daily volume during this quarter as users relied on their devices to stay connected in a new reality. In software, at the same time that our teams worked with great creativity and excitement as we prepare to deliver our first ever all online Worldwide Developers Conference later this quarter, they also worked with the same creativity and speed to put together our COVID-19 symptom checking website and app in partnership with the CDC. As of today, the app has been installed nearly 2 million times and the web tool has received over 3 million unique visits. And just this month, to accelerate contact tracing, we are launching a joint effort with Google to enable the use of Bluetooth technology to help governments and health agencies reduce the spread of the virus with user privacy and security central to the design. We paired these programmatic efforts with a broader strategy to get back where it’s needed most. We’ve made major corporate donations to response efforts around the world to support global citizens as well as a new fund for Americans experiencing food insecurity as a result of the crisis. When you tally these things up and consider our ongoing 2 to 1 match for employee donations, Apple’s contributions to the global response are significant, diverse, and a great source of pride for the whole chain. We’re also doing what we can to help our employees, their families, and by extension their communities stay safe and well by modifying our operations where appropriate. This extends of course to our retail employees, they are Apple’s face to our customers and an instrumental part of our business and we’re compensating them normally despite store closures. During a quarter where circumstances evolve by the hour, we have been gratified by the resilience and adaptability of our global supply chain. While we felt some temporary supply constraints in February, our operations team, suppliers and manufacturing partners have been safely returning to work and production was back at typical levels toward the end of March. At this time of social distance, of shuttered school and gathering places, of delayed plans and new ways of socializing, we have seen significant evidence that our products have taken a renewed importance for customers. Teachers and students around the world are relying on our technology to teach, learn, and stay connected with each other. We are in the process of deploying major orders of iPads to school systems working to keep learning going strong at a distance, including tens of thousands in Ontario, Canada; Glasgow, Scotland and Puerto Rico, a 100,000 to the city of Los Angeles and 350,000 to New York City, our largest educational iPad deployment ever. Since early March, we’ve seen unprecedented demand for a pro app from students, enthusiasts and creative professionals. These folks are keeping us all entertained and inspired as we stay at home. And to help them do it, we made Final Cut Pro X and Logic Pro X available for free for 90-days for everyone. And the reaction has been overwhelming, driving software downloads and usage to record levels. And doctors and medical professionals are making even greater use of Apple Watch and other health features to communicate with patients and to treat them safely from a distance when necessary. With new FDA guidance on non-invasive remote patient monitoring, for example, the ECG app on Apple Watch is increasingly being used to facilitate remote ECG measurements and recordings for telemedicine usage, reducing patient and healthcare provider contact and exposure. Many hospitals such as Geisinger Health System, NYU Langone Health, and Stanford Health Care are using apps on iPad and iPhone to support communication and video conferences between hospitalized patients and their care teams. This enables the care teams to keep a close watch on patients without entering isolation rooms, which helps to minimize exposure and reduces some of the need for personal protective equipment. Now, when you step back and tally all this up, when you consider all the ways COVID-19 has touched Apple, our customers and the way we work, this may not have been the quarter it could have been absent this pandemic, but I don't think I can recall a quarter where I've been prouder of what we do or how we do it. As I said at the outset, we achieved revenue of $58.3 billion and underneath that was product revenue of $45 billion. The performance of our product business had three very different phases during the March quarter. Based on Apple’s performance during the first five weeks of the quarter, we were confident we were headed toward a record second quarter at the very high end of our expectations. In the next five weeks of the quarter, as COVID-19 started impacting China, iPhone supply was temporarily affected, as well as demand for our products within China. This caused us to withdraw our revenue guidance in February. At that point, demand for our products outside of China was still strong and in line with our expectations. During the last three weeks of the quarter, as the virus spread globally and social distancing measures were put in place worldwide, including the closure of all our retail stores outside of Greater China on March 13th, and many channel partner points of sales around the world, we saw downward pressure on demand, particularly for iPhone and Wearables. Given the lack of visibility and uncertainly in the near term, we will not be issuing guidance for the coming quarter. Over the long term though, we have a high degree of confidence in the enduring strength of our business. Our global supply chain is profoundly durable and resilient. We have shown the consistent ability to meet and manage temporary supply challenges like those caused by COVID-19. We have continued to deliver innovative new products across multiple categories that appeal to a broad cross-section of customers, including the all-new iPhone SE, which achieved unmatched technological capacity at an incredible value. Our teams worldwide have tackled the complexities of this moment with unmatched creativity, good humor and dedication to our customers. For a company whose business is innovation, there are real upsides in periodically having to figure out how to do just about everything in a brand new way. Our long-running investment in our Services strategy is succeeding. This business is growing and is a reflection of our enduring large and growing installed base. We expect to meet our longstanding goal of doubling our fiscal 2016 Services revenue in 2020. We have always run Apple for the long term. We entered this period with unmatched financial strain, a robust cash position and our best product pipeline ever. Major investments, including our five-year commitment to contribute $350 billion to the economy here in the United States are moving forward full speed ahead. It’s in these moments that we set ourselves apart. We’ve always managed through difficult moments by doubling down and investing in the next generation of innovation. And that’s our strategy today. And so, while we can’t say for sure how many chapters are in this book, we can have confidence that the ending will be a good one. Apple will continue to do everything we can do to help the global response and to keep our customers learning, creating, sharing, and connecting so that life can remain as normal as it can during this challenging time. With that, I’ll hand things off to

Maestri: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. It has been a very different quarter than we were expecting when we last talked to you at the end of January. But, we could not be more proud of our Apple teams around the world, our role in supporting local communities and our partners throughout the value chain, and how resilient our business and financial performance has been during these challenging times. So, the revenue for the quarter was $58.3 billion, up 1% from a year ago, despite the extreme circumstances from the impact of COVID-19 and a headwind of a 100 basis points from foreign exchange. Products revenue was $45 billion, down 3%. After a very strong January, our performance was impacted particularly during the last three weeks of the quarter when lockdowns and point-of-sale closures increase due to COVID-19 spreading around the world and affected our product sales. However, on a demand basis, our performance was stronger than our reported results as we reduced iPhone channel inventory more than we did a year ago. Importantly, our installed base of active devices reached an all-time high in all of our geographic segments and all major product categories. Services revenue followed a different trend with very strong year-over-year growth of 17%. We set a new all-time revenue record of $13.3 billion with all-time records in many of our Services categories and in most countries we track. I’ll provide more details on this later. Company gross margin was 38.4%, flat sequentially with cost savings and mix shift towards Services offset by the seasonal loss of leverage. Products gross margin was 30.3%, decreasing 380 basis points sequentially due to loss of leverage and unfavorable mix. This drop was more pronounced than under normal circumstances due to the COVID-19 impact I mentioned earlier. Services gross margin was 65.4%, up 100 basis points sequentially, driven by favorable mix. Our reported tax rate for the quarter was 14.4%. This was lower than our 16.5% guidance due to onetime discreet items. Net income was $11.2 billion and earnings per share with $2.55, up 4%. Operating cash flow was very strong at $13.3 billion, an improvement of $2.2 billion over a year ago. Let me get into more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue of $29 billion, declined 7% year-over-year as both iPhone supply and demand were affected by the impact of COVID-19 at some point during the quarter. On the supply side, we suffered from some temporary supply shortages during February, but we’ve been extremely pleased with the resilience and adaptability of our global supply chain, as well as its ability to get people back to work safely when circumstances allow. Our operations team and manufacturing partners put forth an extraordinary effort to restore production quickly, and we exited the quarter in a good supply position for most of our product lines. On the demand side, after very strong first five weeks, we saw the impact of COVID-19 affect demand in China for the next five weeks, and then more broadly around the world for the last three weeks of the quarter, when lockdowns and point-of-sale closures became more widespread in many countries. While we did see a slight elongation in our replacement cycle towards the end of the quarter, which we attribute to the widespread point-of-sale closures, our active installed base of iPhones has reached an all-time high. This speaks to the quality of our products and strength of our ecosystem. In fact, in the U.S., the latest survey of consumers from 451 Research indicates iPhone customer satisfaction of 99% for iPhone 11, 11 Pro and 11 Pro Max combined. Turning to Services. We set an all-time revenue record of $13.3 billion with strong performance across the board with all-time revenue records in the App Store, Apple Music, Video, cloud services, and our App Store search ad business. And we also set a March quarter record for AppleCare. Our new services, Apple TV Plus, Apple Arcade, Apple News Plus and Apple Card continue to add users, content and features while contributing to overall Services growth. As Tim mentioned, we’re well on our way to accomplishing our goal of doubling our fiscal ‘16 Services revenue during 2020. App Store revenue grew by strong double digits, thanks to robust customer demand for both in-app purchases and subscriptions. Our third-party subscription business grew across multiple categories and increased over 30% year-over-year, reaching a new all-time high. Our first party subscription services also continued to perform very well. Apple Music and cloud services, both set all-time revenue record and AppleCare set a March quarter record. Paid subscriptions for all three of these services were up strong double-digits. Customer engagement in our ecosystem continues to grow strongly, and the number of both transacting and paid accounts on our digital content stores reached a new all-time high during the March quarter. In particular, the number of paid accounts increased double digits in all of our geographic segments. We now have over 515 million paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, up 125 million from a year ago. On a sequential basis, paid subscriptions grew by over 35 million. This is the highest sequential growth we have ever experienced. With this momentum, we’re confident we will reach our increased target of 600 million paid subscriptions before the end of calendar 2020. Wearables, Home and Accessories established a new March quarter record with revenue of $6.3 billion, up 23% year-over-year with strong double digit performance across all five geographic segments. Our Wearables business is now the size of a Fortune 140 company, and we’re very excited by the many opportunities in front of us for this product category. For example, Apple Watch continues to expand its reach as over 75% of the customers purchasing Apple Watch around the world during the quarter were new to the product. Next, I’d like to talk about Mac and iPad. Mac revenue was $5.4 billion; iPad revenue was $4.4 billion. Towards the end of the quarter, we launched a brand new iPad Pro that includes a first in class LiDAR scanner with some really exciting augmented reality applications; and MacBook Air with significantly improved performance at a lower price. We’re very pleased with the strong customer interest for both products. Importantly, around half of the customers purchasing Macs and iPads around the world during the quarter were new to that product and the active installed base for both Mac and iPad reached a new all-time high. And the most recent surveys of consumers from 451 Research measured customer satisfaction at 95% for iPad and 96% for Mac. In the enterprise market businesses everywhere have been making the transition to working remotely. We’ve created content to assist our customers in this transition including an on-demand video learning series focused on topics like remote deployments of iPad and Mac and security. We’ve also realigned our own retail business and enterprise teams to provide timely and relevant support to customers as they navigate new work environments. Some of our largest customers offering Mac to employees such as IBM and SAP have been able to pivot quickly to allow employees to easily set up and secure their devices from home, benefiting from Apple Business Manager and zero-touch deployment. And we’ve seen countless examples of new projects of remote deployments implemented in just a few hours. Peloton for instance, worked with our New York teams to deploy an entire fleet of Macs overnight, so their team could work remotely. In essential sectors, such as grocery and financial services, we’ve seen organizations adopt our technology to better serve their customers safely. Leading grocers around the world, like Trader Joe’s, Woolworths, Lawson’s, Sainsbury’s, Lidl, and Carrefour offer Apple Pay so customers can use contactless payments. And as stores shift to become fulfillment centers for online orders, organizations are leveraging apps for remote shoppers and food delivery to reduce foot traffic. In banking, where safety and securities are a top priority, one way to protect company and client information is by providing corporate iOS devices to employees who use mobile phones daily as part of their jobs. As an example, Bank of America is purchasing tens of thousands of additional iOS devices for their workforce. Let me now turn to our cash position. First, I want to note that liquidity has not been an issue for us during these highly unusual financial market conditions. We have an extraordinarily strong balance sheet, very deep access to capital markets, and unmatched free cash flow generation. We ended the quarter with $193 billion in cash plus marketable securities, total debt of $110 billion. And as a result, net cash was $83 billion at the end of the quarter. We returned $22 billion to shareholders during the March quarter, including $18.5 billion through open market repurchases of 64.7 million Apple shares, and $3.4 billion in dividends and equivalents. Finally, as we move ahead into the June quarter, I’d like to provide some color on what we are seeing, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Tejas referred to at the beginning of the call. As Tim mentioned, given the lack of visibility and certainty in the near term, we will not be issuing guidance for the coming quarter. However, based on what we have seen in April, and how we think things might play out, I would like to provide some additional insight on headwinds and tailwinds we’re facing. From a foreign exchange standpoint, the U.S. dollar has appreciated recently against most currencies around the world. And as a result, we expect our revenue to be negatively impacted by more than $1.5 billion on a year-over-year basis. Our global supply chain is back, up and running. We are in a typical supply position, including our usual ramp associated with new products recently launched. These newly launched products, iPad Pro, MacBook Air, and iPhone SE have all received outstanding customer response, even during these extreme circumstances. On iPhone and Wearables, we expect a year-over-year revenue performance to worsen in the June quarter relative to the March quarter; on iPad and Mac, we expect the year-over-year revenue performance to improve in the June quarter. On Services, we are seeing two distinct trends. First, customers are actively engaging with our ecosystem and digital services, and we believe the very strong recent performance in the App Store, Video, Music, and cloud services will continue throughout the June quarter. Second, due to the overall reduced level of economic activity, due to the lockdowns around the world, services like AppleCare and advertising are being impacted. AppleCare is comprised of our product repair business and the warranty agreements with our customers, both of which have been obviously affected by store closures and reduced level of customer traffic. Advertising, which is comprised of third-party agreements, our App Store search ads, and Apple News ads has been impacted by overall economic weakness and uncertainty on when businesses will reopen. For gross margin, sequential headwinds include foreign exchange, the mix within products, and the seasonal loss of leverage on our product business. Foreign exchange will have a 70 basis points impact sequentially and 130 basis points impact year-over-year. Regarding product mix, keep in mind the commentary we provided at the revenue level. Sequential tailwinds include cost savings and the mix shift towards services. With regard to capital allocation, our approach remains unchanged. We continue to invest confidently in our future while also returning value to our shareholders. We are in the midst of developing our most exciting pipeline of products and services ever while contributing over $350 billion to the U.S. economy and expanding our footprint in many cities around the country over a five-year period. We also continue to believe that there is great value in our stock, and we are maintaining our target of reaching a net cash neutral position over time. As a testament to the confidence we have in our business today and into the future, our Board has authorized $50 billion for share repurchases in addition to the over $40 billion authorization remaining under the current share repurchase plan. Our Board has also authorized a 6% increase in our quarterly dividend and today declared a cash dividend of $0.82 per share of common stock, payable on May 14, 2020, to shareholders of record as of May 11, 2020. Finally, and most importantly, we are managing Apple for the long term, as we’ve always done. During uncertain times historically, we have continued to invest in the business and this remains our philosophy. We will continue to stay focused on what we do best, investing in our product and service pipeline, managing the business wisely, and taking care of our teams and believe we will come out from this stronger. With that, let’s open the call to questions.

Gala: Thank you, Luca. We ask that you limit yourself to two questions. Operator, may have the first question, please?

Cross: Thank you very much for taking my question, and I hope everyone is well. Tim, you talked about seeing some improvement in the second half of April. So, I was wondering if you could just talk maybe a bit more on the segment, a geographic basis, what you’re seeing and in the various regions that you’re selling in and what you’re hearing from your customers.

Cook: Sure, Shannon. If you look at -- I’ll start with China. If you look at what happened in China, we were having a really good January. The lockdown started there toward the end of January, as you know. February, we saw a steep decline in demand. We closed our stores in February. As the lockdown completed in mid-February, toward the second half of February, we begin to open stores. We opened on a staggered basis that took about 30 days until mid-March. And from a demand point of view, we saw then an improvement in March over February. And if you look at, kind of where we are today, we’ve seen further improvement in April as compared to March. And so, that’s China. If you look at the rest of the world, we were doing great in January, the first five weeks of the quarter. And we do believe that we were headed toward the sort of the top end of our expectations that we had talked to you about on the last call. The next five weeks were spent sort of reacting and getting the supply chain back up in full force and working through the sharp decline in China that I already talked about. The real thing for the rest of the world happened in March when the shelter-in-place orders went in and the work-from-home began. For those two, three weeks period, at the end of the quarter, we saw a sharp decline in demand. If you now step out into April and look at that, early April started like the end of March, but in the second half of April, we’ve seen an uptick across really across the board. It’s not just related to a certain geo or a certain product. We think, by looking at it, a part of it is due to just our new products, a part of it is due to the stimulus programs taking effect in April, and then a part of it is probably the consumer behavior of knowing this is going to go on for a little while longer and getting some devices and so forth lined up to work at home more. In particular for as I think Luca shared, we believe that iPad and Mac are going to improve on a year-over-year basis during this quarter, and that’s customers that are either taking online education or working remotely. So, complex answer to your question, but that’s what we’re seeing.

Cross: Thank you. That was helpful. Luca, unless I missed it, you talked about various puts and takes in the quarter, but didn’t really discuss operating expenses. I know you mentioned some cost savings on the COGS line. I’m curious how you’re thinking about your spending and OpEx, given some of the macro challenges that you may be facing.

Maestri: Let me answer that, Katy. First of all, on the buyback. As I said, in general, our approach to capital allocation has remained the same for the last several years and it’s not changing now. Keep in mind here, we’re talking about just the authorization, right? And when you look at our actual results at the end of every quarter, you see how much we actually do in terms of share repurchases. The $50 billion is in addition to over $40 billion that is still remaining from the past authorization that we’ve received from our Board, right? So it’s the total available or outstanding in terms of authorization is over $90. And as you look at our run rate during the last several years, you know that that is a very adequate amount. And as you know, we will provide an additional update a year from now. So, nothing really has changed there. And nothing has changed on our approach for M&A. We’ve been quite active over the last several years. We purchase companies on a very regular basis. We’re always looking for ways to accelerate our product roadmaps or fill gaps in our portfolio, both on the hardware side, on the software side, on the services side. So, we will continue to do that.

Daryanani: Thanks for taking my question. I have two as well. I guess, first off on the channel inventory. I was hoping if you could talk about how did channel inventory look like in the March quarter, because it sounds like it may be below the historical ranges. And then, the discussion you had for June quarter performance of iPhones, what are you embedding from a channel building back inventory levels in that expectation.

Cook: Amit, it’s Tim. If you look at the iPhone channel inventory during Q2, the reduction of it was more than the reduction from the previous year. It’s not unusual that we reduce in Q2. In fact, if you look back, generally speaking, in the first half of the calendar year, we reduce channel inventories; during the second half of the calendar year, we generally raise channel inventories. That’s a seasonal thing. And sitting here today, I believe that will happen this year as well. So, hopefully, that answers your question. And by the way, we ended in a comfortable position.

Daryanani: That’s really helpful. Maybe just for follow-up. Tim, I was hoping you could maybe talk a little bit about, how do you think about Apple’s manufacturing strategy and perhaps need for some diversity, especially given everything in the Company and everyone has gone through over the last 12 months, how do you think about that? And do you feel comfortable that the supply chain and the manufacturing base is well situated today to launch the traditional fall products that they used to get from Apple?

Cook: As you know, our supply chain is global. And so, our products are truly made everywhere. And I would focus on that versus focus on one element of the manufacturing process, which tends to get more visibility, which is the final assembly. We have some final assembly in the United States; we have final assembly in China as well. I think, you’d have to conclude, or at least I conclude that if you look at the shock to the supply chain that took place this quarter, for it to come back up so quickly really demonstrates that it’s durable and resilient. And so, I feel good about where we are. That said, we’re always looking at tweaks. And it’s just not something we talk about, because if we view it as confidential and competitive information. And so, we will look at the -- as we get out of this totally, we will look to see what we learned and what we should change.

Ong: Hi, guys. Thanks for letting me ask a couple of questions. So, I want to focus my question on Services. The segment was solid in the quarter despite overall macro weakness. I can kind of see the logic behind it being strong despite product weakness overall. As you kind of look at the rest of the year, do you think that sustains or at some point does the macro impacts worldwide impact the Services line?

Cook: Yes. For March, Chris, we saw NAND pricing increase slightly while DRAM and displays and the other commodities declined. For the June quarter, we would expect NAND and DRAM pricing to remain at this historically low level, while displays and most other commodity prices we expect to decline.

Cook: Thanks, Tejas. Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining the call today. Before we begin, I joined the many millions across this country in mourning and memorialize Congressman John Lewis, who was laid to rest earlier today. We've lost a hero who walked among us, a leader in the truest sense who urged this country to aim higher and be better until the very end. I was humbled and fortunate to know him and as an Alabama native his example inspires me still. It now falls to every American to be a living memorial to John Lewis and to carry forward the work and the mission that defined his life. Throughout the call I'll speak in greater detail about Apple's support for equity and justice topics of great urgency on a number of fronts, but first I want to pull the lens back to consider the quarter and full. In an uncertain environment Apple saw a quarter of historic results demonstrating the important role our products play in our customers' lives. We set a June quarter record with revenue of $59.7 billion, up 11% from a year ago. Both products and services set June quarter records and grew double-digits and revenue grew in each of our geographic segments, reflecting the broad base of this success. As always and especially in times of real adversity, what makes us proud as a company is not merely what we did, but how we did it. As millions March for justice in big cities and small towns alike, we committed a $100 million to launch Apple's racial equity and justice initiative as well as new and renewed internal efforts to foster diversity and inclusion at all levels of the company. As COVID-19 continues to represent great risks for individuals and great uncertainty for our communities, care and adaptability are defining how we conduct our work wherever we work. In some places that has met responsibly reopening our operations and retail stores with enhanced health and safety precautions. In others, where the virus has reemerge it's meant taking the challenging, but necessary step of re-closing stores. I'll touch on these topics more in a little bit. But first I want to offer some more context on the quarter's results. Due to the uncertain and ongoing impacts of COVID-19, we did not provide our typical guidance when we reported our results last quarter, but we did provide some color on how we expected the June quarter to play out. I'd like to contextualize our results in terms of that color across each of our product categories beginning with iPhone. iPhone revenue grew 2% this quarter. In April, we expected year-over-year performance to worsen, but we saw better-than-expected demand in May and June. We attribute this increase in demand to several interactive causes including a strong iPhone SE launch, continued economic stimulus, and potentially some benefit from shelter in place restrictions lifting around the world. We expected iPad and Mac growth to accelerate and we saw very strong double-digit growth for these devices this quarter. This remarkable performance came in spite of supply constraints on both products. We're working hard to get more iPads and Macs into customers' hands as quickly as possible recognizing how integral they have become to working and learning from home providing entertainment and staying connected with loved ones. Wearables growth decelerated as we expected, but still grew by strong double-digits and set a revenue record for a non-holiday quarter. Building on powerful new features built into watchOS 7 and AirPods Pro announced this quarter, we are very excited about the many opportunities in front of us for this product category. These strong results helped drive our installed base of active devices to new all-time records across each of our product categories. Reflecting the deep integration of hardware, software and services, services generated a June quarter record of $13.2 billion, up 15% year-over-year. As we mentioned during our last call, there were two distinct trends we were seeing and they played out as we thought. First, results for advertising and AppleCare were impacted by the reduced level of economic activity and store closures to a degree that was in line with our expectations. Second, we had strong performance in our digital services with all-time revenue records in the App Store, Apple Music, video and cloud services as well as elevated engagement on iMessage, Siri and FaceTime. Customers are loving new offerings across Apple services like Apple News today, our new daily audio briefing and Greyhound, our new summer blockbuster starring Tom Hanks. In fact, Apple TV+ just hit a history making 95 awards nominations and 25 wins and accolades. Based on these results and our performance over the last four quarters, we are proud to announce that we have achieved our goal of doubling. Our fiscal 2016 services revenue six months ahead of schedule. We're conscious of the fact that these results stand in stark relief during a time of real economic adversity for businesses large and small and certainly for families. We do not have a zero-sum approach to prosperity and especially in times like this, we are focused on growing the pie, making sure our success isn't just our success and that everything we make, build or do is geared towards creating opportunities for others. The App Store is a great example. This quarter, a new study by independent economists at the Analysis Group founded the App Store facilitated more than 0.5 trillion in commerce globally in 2019 alone. Especially in a time of COVID-19, you can measure economic resilience in the ways in which the App Store supports remote ordering for restaurants, digital commerce for small businesses and an enduring entrepreneurial opportunity for creators and visionaries. Keeping learning vibrant and impactful in the time of COVID-19 is a priority everyone shares. Earlier this month, we announced significant enhancements to the development Swift and Everyone Can Code curricula and we launched a new professional learning course available exclusively to educators. In just two weeks ago, our Community Education initiative added 10 more historically black college and university regional coding centers to our roster, bringing the total to 24 locations nationwide, 12 of which are HBCUs and 21 of which serve majority black and brown student populations. In Apple's backyard, we announced that we are allocating $400 million of our multi-year $2.5 billion affordable housing commitment to new housing construction, homebuyer assistance programs and support for those at greatest risk of experiencing homelessness across Silicon Valley. Apple's results this quarter are only possible due to our people and their ongoing ingenuity, flexibility, resilience and determination during these ever-changing times. I want to thank our AppleCare and retail teams who have paired exceptional service during a time of intense demand with great adaptability during a quarter where stores have reopened in some places and reclosed in others. A dedicated team of specialists and experts has shouldered the task of caring for the well-being of our teams and communities store by store, location by location with evidence driven granularity and agility that is unrivaled anywhere. Innovation from adversity certainly define this year's Worldwide Developers Conference as well. This is an event where traditionally Apple's worldwide community of developers gathers together to share, celebrate and do big things together. Though we could not be together in person, Apple set a new standard for what online events can achieve with our celebrated all virtual event. The results here speak for themselves. More than 22 million viewers tuned in across all of Apple streams. For our developers we distributed more than 72 hours of video content. That's three full days of video. The weak saw more than 200 direct video engineering and design sessions and about 4500 person to person appointments with developers across 227 virtual labs. And of course that's even before you get to this year's announcements from iOS 14, which boasts the radical redesign to the home screen, powerful updates to messages, streamlined and effortless app clips and even greater privacy transparency and controls to major updates to Apple Pencil, Siri and calling and iPad OS 14 to much anticipated sleep tracking, new fitness and wellness features and unprecedented customization and watchOS 7 to the new macOS Big Sur boasting the biggest redesign upgrade to macOS since OS X. No less important for Apple's innovation roadmap is our transition to Apple silicon for the Mac. This two-year effort will achieve both unprecedented performance for the Mac and a common architecture across all Apple products. Looking forward, we are profoundly optimistic about Apple's future and we recognize that with this success comes some real responsibility to lead with our values because those values help make that success possible in the first place. We are just as proud of our announcement this month that Apple will be fully carbon-neutral by 2030 across our entire supply chain and including the energy use of every device we make as we are of any hardware innovation because they spring from the same instinct to leave the world better than we found it. We're committed to standing with those marching for the lives and dignity through our new $100 million commitment to Apple's racial equity and justice initiative, and we're deepening our diversity and inclusion efforts internally because our future as a business is inextricably linked with the future of our communities. There are times when things seem to move slowly when needed progress, economic or social themes bogged down when the instinct to turn away from the horizon and hold onto what you've got fields and ex-capable, and then there are times like this when people of goodwill step forward, when progressed on Moore's itself, when the insistence of hope forces something new. This is an immensely challenging moment. COVID-19 is still devastating many places and we have work left to do to care for the health and well-being of the communities in which all of us live and work. But no community of people, whether a company or a country, can afford to miss this call when it comes. At Apple, we never have and we don't intend to start now.

Maestri: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. Our June quarter was a testament to Apple's ability to innovate and execute during challenging times. Our results speak to the resilience of our business and the relevance of our products and services in our customers' lives. Total revenue was $59.7 billion, a new June quarter record, up 11% from a year ago, despite a 300 basis point headwind from foreign exchange. Our performance was strong across our entire portfolio as we grew revenue in each of our product categories and set June quarter records for Mac, for Wearables and for services. Similarly, our results were very strong all around the world with growth in all geographic segments and new June quarter records in the Americas, in Europe, in Japan and Rest of Asia-Pacific. Products revenue was $46.5 billion, up 10% and a June quarter record. iPhone returned to growth and we saw very strong double-digit growth from iPad, Mac and Wearables. Lockdowns and point of sale closures were widespread during April and impacted our performance, but we saw demand for all products improve significantly in May and June. As a result of our strong performance and the unmatched loyalty of our customers, our installed base of active devices reached an all-time high in all of our geographic segments and all major product categories. Our services continue to grow strongly up 15% year-over-year and reached a June quarter record of $13.2 billion. We set all-time records in many services categories and June quarter records in each geographic segment. I'll cover this in more detail later. Company gross margin was 38%. This was down 40 basis points sequentially due to unfavorable FX of 90 basis points and a different mix of products partially offset by cost savings and services mix. Products gross margin was 29.7% decreasing 60 basis points sequentially due to FX and a different mix partially offset by cost savings. Services gross margin was 67.2% up 180 basis points sequentially mainly due to mix. Net income was $11.3 billion and earnings per share were $2.58, up 18% and a June quarter record. Operating cash flow was also a June quarter record at $16.3 billion, an improvement of $4.6 billion over a year ago. Let me get into more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue grew 2% to $26.4 billion with customer demand improving as the quarter progressed. COVID-19 was most impactful during the first three weeks of April when lockdowns and point of sale closures became more widespread in many countries. We saw marked improvement around the world in May and June, which we attribute to an improved level of customer demand helped by the very successful launch of iPhone SE and economic stimulus packages. Our active installed base of iPhones again reached an all-time high as a result of the loyalty of our customer base and strength of our ecosystem. In fact in the US the latest survey of consumers from 451 Research indicates iPhone customer satisfaction of 98% for iPhone 11, 11 Pro and 11 Pro Max combined. Turning to services, as I said, we set a June quarter record of $13.4 billion of revenue. We had all-time record performance and strong double-digit growth in the App Store, Apple Music, video and cloud services. Our new services Apple TV+, Apple Arcade, Apple News+ and Apple Card are also contributing to overall services growth and continue to add users’ content and features. At the same time customer engagement in our ecosystem continues to grow at a fast pace. The number of both transacting and paid accounts on our digital content stores reached a new all-time high during the June quarter with paid accounts increasing double-digits in each of our geographic segments. In aggregate, paid subscriptions grew more than 35 million sequentially and we now have over 550 million paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, up 130 million from a year ago. With this momentum we remain confident to reach our increased target of 600 million paid subscriptions before the end of calendar 2020. Wearables, Home and Accessories established a new June quarter record with revenue of $6.5 billion, up 17% year-over-year. Our Wearables business is now the size of a Fortune 140 company and we set June quarter records in the majority of markets we track. Importantly Apple Watch continues to extend its reach with over 75% of the customers purchasing Apple Watch during the quarter new to the product. Next, I'd like to talk about the impressive performance of Mac. Revenue was $7.1 billion, up 22% over last year and a June quarter record. We grew double digits in each geographic segment and set all-time revenue records in Japan and rest of Asia-Pacific as well as June quarter records in the Americas and Europe. Customer response to our new MacBook Air and MacBook Pro launches has been extremely strong. iPad performance was equally impressive with revenue of $6.6 billion, up 31% and our highest June quarter revenue in eight years. Demand was strong around the world with double-digit growth in each of our geographic segments, including a June quarter record in Greater China. The launch of our new iPad Pro has been received incredibly well in every region of the world. Both Mac and iPad are extremely relevant products in the new working and learning environments and the most recent surveys of consumers from 451 Research measured customer satisfaction at 96% for Mac and 97% for iPad. Around half of the customers purchasing Mac and iPad during the quarter were new to that product. And as a result, the active installed base for both products reached a new all-time high. Our retail business had record June quarter revenue. Thanks to the performance of our online store which had records in all geographic segments and grew across all major product categories. In June, we launched Apple Card Monthly Installments for more products in our US stores allowing customers to pay for their devices all the time with 0% interest. We're very pleased with the level of customer interest this new offering has generated. In the enterprise market, we continue to see companies leverage Apple products and offerings to successfully navigate their businesses through COVID-19. In healthcare, we are seeing rapid acceleration of telehealth to support a more flexible model of patient care. Many hospitals such as UVA Health, Rush University Medical Center and UC San Diego Health are using apps on iPad and iPhone to have triage, monitor and care for patients who are at home. This helps free up hospital capacity to support patients who need inpatient care while enabling continued care for patients who do not require in-person visits. Since many call center employees are currently working remotely, Apple Business Chat has proven an invaluable tool for staying connected with customers. This quarter HSBC deployed Apple Business Chat in its US and UK contact centers. Apple Business Chat provides a flexible and secured channel for digital banking assistance through a native Apple experience improving the efficiency and experience for both customers and agents. We are seeing similar adoption by hundreds of other organizations. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with almost $194 billion in cash plus marketable securities. We issued $8.5 billion of new term debt, retired $7.4 billion of term debt and increased short-term borrowing facilities by $1.1 billion during the quarter leaving us with total debt of $113 billion. As a result, net cash was $81 billion at the end of the quarter and we continue on our path to reaching a net cash neutral position over time. We returned over $21 billion to shareholders during the June quarter, including $3.7 billion in dividends and equivalents and $10 billion through open market repurchases of 31.3 million Apple shares. We also began a $6 billion accelerated share repurchase program in May resulting in the initial delivery and retirement of 15.2 million shares. And finally, we retired an additional 4.8 million shares in the final settlement of our 15th ASR. As we move ahead into the September quarter, I'd like to provide some color on what we are seeing, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Tejas referred to at the beginning of the call. Similar to last quarter, given the uncertainty around the world in the near-term, we will not be issuing revenue and margin guidance for the coming quarter. However, we will provide some additional insight on our expectations for the September quarter for our product categories. On iPhone, we expect to see recent performance continue for our current product lineup, including the strong customer response for iPhone SE. In addition, as you know, last year we started selling new iPhones in late September. This year we project supply to be available a few weeks later. We expect the rest of our product categories to have strong year-over-year performance. For services, we expect the September quarter to have the same trends that we have observed during the June quarter except for AppleCare where during the September quarter a year ago we expanded our distribution significantly. As a consequence, we expect a difficult comp for AppleCare also considering the COVID related point of sale closures this year. For gross margin, keep in mind that we will have a different mix than in prior years as I just explained. For OpEx, we expect to be between $9.8 billion and $9.9 billion. We expect the tax rate to be about 16.5% and OI&E to be $50 million. Also today our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.82 per share of common stock payable on August 13, 2020 to shareholders of record as of August 10, 2020. And finally, today we're announcing a four for one split of Apple common stock to make our stock more accessible to a broader base of investors. Each shareholder of record at the close of business on August 24, 2020 will receive three additional shares for every outstanding share held on the record date and trading will begin on a split-adjusted basis on

Gala: Thank you, Luca. We ask that you limit yourself to two questions. Operator, may we please have the first question?

Cross: Great. And then, can you talk a little bit more about the decision to bring Mac Silicon in-house, then the benefits that you expect to see or you've seen from vertical integration of acquisitions like the Intel modem business?

Cook: Thanks. Yes, I mean, what we will end up -- what we'll end up with is a common architecture across all of our products, which gives us some interesting things that we can do in products that are -- that is sort of unleashes another round of innovation. And so I don't want to say a lot about it, other than we are extremely excited about it, it's something that we've worked on quite a while to get to this point and we're looking forward to shipping the first

Daryanani: Thanks a lot for taking my question guys. I have one and a follow-up as well. Fortunately, I guess, Tim, if I think about the strength, you're seeing with iPhones right now, do you have a sense in terms of where is this trend coming from? Is it more replacement cycles getting shorter or which is getting new customers into the iOS ecosystem because, clearly these growth rates seem fairly impressive in the context of a pandemic and upcoming refresh cycle that we have?

Cook: The installed base is growing and the new customer numbers that Luca went over in the aggregate are still very high in the close to 50% kind of range. And so, that to me, makes the -- bodes well for the future. There is clearly, as we had indicated, there is some amount of work from home and remote learning that do affect the results of Mac and iPad positively. They probably affect wearables and iPhone, the other direction. And -- but on Mac and iPad, these are productivity tools that people are using to stay engaged with their work or stay engaged with their school work. And we believe we're going to have a strong back to school season.

Bollin: Good evening, everyone. Thanks for taking the question. Tim, I was hoping you could share a little bit about where you think channel inventory is? You talked about the tightness you saw exiting the June quarter for Mac and iPad. Interested, where you think inventory is across major product categories.

Cook: We usually -- we've gotten away from talking about channel inventories. But to give you a perspective sitting here looking at it, on iPhone the inventory is slightly less than it was a year ago and that's I'm saying that at a quarter end point, so at the end of Q3. And obviously iPad and Mac are constrained and so both of those are less than they were in the year ago quarter.

Bollin: Okay. And then, Luca, I'm interested, any color you could share about the impact COVID had on OpEx in the quarter, be it work from home, stipends, travel, other employee support costs. And also how the company is thinking about the longer-term opportunity of employees working remotely maybe more permanently many considerations and how that could influence the future OpEx?

Cook: Well, I don't want to make a forever comment, but there are -- we are a product company and we love making the whole thing. And because if we can -- on the user experience in that way and with the goal of delighting the user. And that's the reason that we're doing the Apple Silicon is because we can envision some products that we can achieve with Apple Silicon that we couldn't achieve otherwise.

Cook: Thanks Tejas. Good afternoon and thanks for joining the call today. Back in April, I said we were in the most challenging environment in which Apple as a company has ever operated. That atmosphere of uncertainty, of resolve, of making difficult calls with limited information has not only come to define Apple’s year, but each of our lives as individuals across this country, and around the world. It has been a chapter that none of us will forget. In the face of these challenges, Apple stayed relentlessly focused on what we do best, seeing in every obstacle an opportunity to do something new, something creative, something better on behalf of our customers. Today we report a quarter and a fiscal year that reflects that effort. This quarter, Apple achieved revenue of $64.7 billion, a September quarter record, despite the anticipated absence of new iPhone availability during the quarter, and the ongoing impacts of COVID-19, including closures at many of our retail locations. We also set a new all-time record for Mac and Services. Outside of iPhone, each of our product categories saw strong double digit year-over-year growth, despite supply constraints in several product categories. Our results for this quarter were ahead of our expectations, driven by stronger-than-expected iPhone and Services performance. As we anticipated, we launched new iPhone models in October, a few weeks later than last year’s mid-September launch. Up to that mid-September point, customer demand for iPhone was very strong, and grew double-digits. On Services, we saw stronger-than-expected performance across the board. Geographically, we set September quarter records in the Americas, Europe and Rest of Asia Pacific. We also set a September quarter record in India, thanks in part to a very strong reception to this quarter’s launch of our online store in the country. Greater China is the region that was most heavily impacted by the absence of the new iPhones during the September quarter, still we beat our internal expectations in the region, growing non-iPhone revenue strong double digits and iPhone customer demand grew through mid-September. When you pull back the lens to the entire fiscal year, it’s a testament to the team’s work and to the resilience of the business in the era of COVID-19. This year, we set an all-time revenue record of $274.5 billion, growing 6% year-on-year. We grew every quarter, set all-time yearly records in Mac, Wearables Home and Accessories, and Services, and grew by double-digits in every product category outside of iPhone. When we first began to grapple with COVID-19, I said there are worse things for a company whose business is innovation, than having to periodically do just about everything in an entirely new way. This year, we not only launched our most powerful and compelling generation of hardware, software and Services ever, we did it in a way that pushes to reimagine every part of that innovation process, down to how we share these announcements with the world and how we get new products into our customers’ hands. Working from kitchen tables and bedrooms, in distanced office settings and rework labs and manufacturing facilities, the team rebuilt every part of the plane while it was mid-air, and the results speak for themselves. In a year that has been enormously challenging, our retail teams, contact centers, and all those who work with our customers most closely, have gone to creative and dedicated to keep serving our customers. From adapting our stores for contactless pickup to new Apple Express storefronts, to new online customer support options. Amid store closings, reopenings and reimagining, these teams have been an unfailing source of energy, creativity and determination. Innovation isn’t just about what you make; it’s about how you approach problems, and these teams and every team across Apple having not faced a single question this year that they haven’t found an answer to with passion and resolve. Their actions didn’t just meet the moment; they will make us a better company moving forward. The pandemic has hit home for all of us, and at Apple we have seen it as a call to action. We have seen the pain in our communities. Many of us have seen our children work hard to adapt to remote learning, and we all know that the road ahead is uncertain. This quarter and throughout the year, our response to this crisis has been to ask, how can we help? In terms of COVID-19 response, that has meant sourcing and donating millions of face masks, designing and manufacturing millions of face shields, and scaling the production of millions of test kits. But we have tried to live our values more broadly. We’ve pledged $100 million to our new racial equity and justice initiative. We’ve committed to be fully carbon neutral by 2030 across our entire supply chain and device usage, as massive wildfires, hurricanes and floods, bring home the consequences of climate change for all of us. And we’ve deepened our enduring educational partnerships, from coding education beginning in elementary school, to new efforts with dozens of historically black colleges and universities. One of the many areas where COVID-19 continues to have a significant impact is in education. As teachers, students and parents alike work hard to keep education relevant, creative and effective, our products have helped them meet the moment. In a typical year, the back-to-school season is a bustling time for us. This year, that was true in the biggest way ever. We’ve helped school districts around the world meet this moment in an unprecedented way, including starting nine of our 10 largest school district deployments ever, that alone will support over 1 million students and teachers. We have also supported these deployments and educators and learners everywhere with free tools and training, reaching over 150,000 teachers and millions of parents and students around the world. Looking forward, we feel great optimism about the road in front of us. We’re in the midst of our most prolific product introduction period ever. In addition to the announcement of HomePod Mini, which achieves unmatched sound quality and Siri and smart-home capabilities in a small and affordable format, we just marked the beginning of a new era for iPhone, with the arrival of our first 5G enabled devices. The iPhone 12 and 12 Mini boasts powerful breakthroughs like an edge-to-edge Super Retina XDR display, unprecedented durability with a new ceramic shield, developed with our partners at Corning, new MagSafe charging and accessories, the fastest ever A14 Bionic chip, and a new dual camera system, driven by computational photography. The iPhone 12 Pro and 12 Pro Max take all of this to an even higher level, driven by the most powerful photo and video tools ever delivered by a smartphone, including an all new LiDAR scanner and the ability to shoot an Apple ProRAW and full Dolby video. And of course, all of these devices bring the 5G experience users have been waiting for, with lightning fast download and uploads, a new standard in video streaming, more responsive gaming and much more. The early product reviews have been tremendously positive, and our customers have been similarly excited to get their hands on this next era of devices. We’re very optimistic about what the next few weeks will bring. We’re also seeing a very positive response to our September announcement, the all new Apple Watch Series 6, boasts powerful new health and wellness features, including a blood oxygen sensor, a next generation altimeter, and a wide variety of new colors and bands. The potential for Apple Watch’s powerful health and wellness capabilities continues to grow. Just yesterday, the government of Singapore and Apple launched LumiHealth, a first of its kind program designed to encourage healthy activity and behaviors using Apple Watch. Created in collaboration with a team of physicians and public health experts, LumiHealth uses technology and behavioral insights to encourage Singaporeans to keep healthy and complete wellness challenges through their Apple Watch and iPhone. Singapore is a trailblazer here, and we’re proud to be their partner. Our iPad lineup continues to set the pace for the category, including the new iPad Air now shipping with the A14 Bionic, our most powerful chip ever. We announced Apple Fitness Plus, which delivers deep personalization and integration across the fitness tools our users love and depend on. And Apple One, launching tomorrow, is the easiest way for users to enjoy Apple’s services, like Music, TV+, Arcade, iCloud, News+ and Fitness+ on a single plan that is right for them and their family. Looking across services more broadly, we’re really excited about what we see. This was a record quarter for the App Store, AppleCare, Cloud Services, Music and Payment Services. The App Store in particular, continues to play an essential role in helping small businesses, educational institutions and workplaces adapt to COVID-19. Apple TV+ continues to impress, from fan favorites like Ted Lasso, which has won a worldwide audience with its hopeful tone during challenging times, to critical and award praise, including a Primetime Emmy for Billy Crudup in the morning show. Luca will speak in greater detail about our expectations for the December quarter. Without giving away too much, I can tell you that this year has a few more exciting things in store. Before I hand things off, I want to offer one more comment on resilience, because I think if I had to describe our performance this quarter in a single word, it’s resilient. Financial performance aside, I don’t think this year will be a time that any of us look back on with great fondness or nostalgia. Those of us, who wake up every day, hoping for a return to normal, can count ourselves fortunate. Others don’t have that luxury. There is the great pain of a lost loved one, the uncertainty and fear of a lost job, a deep well of concern for people we care about, who we are not able to see. A sense of opportunities missed, of plans delayed, of time lost. Even though we’re apart, it has been obvious this year that around the company, teams and colleagues have been leaning on and counting on each other more than in normal times. I think that instinct, that resilience has been an essential part of how we have navigated this year. Work can’t solve for all the things we’re missing right now, but a shared sense of purpose goes a long way. A belief that we can do more together than we can alone, that people of goodwill, driven by creativity and passion, and that certain itch of a big idea, can still do things that help other people in our own small way to teach, to learn, to create or just to relax at a time like this. Even as the things we make require us to operate at the very cutting edge of technology, in materials, products and ideas that didn’t exist just a few years ago, this year has forced us to face plainly the things that make us human; disease, resilience and hope. You never wished for a year like this one, but I couldn’t be prouder of the team, the work we have done and the small role we have played in helping our communities find hope and resilience in this time. With that, I’ll hand things over to

Maestri: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. We are very pleased to report today a new September quarter revenue record, which caps a remarkable level of performance for our fiscal year 2020, during which we set new all-time records for revenue, earnings per share and free cash flow, in spite of an extremely volatile and challenging macro environment. We could not be more proud of the way our team has innovated and executed, throughout this unprecedented period of uncertainty. We reported total revenue of $64.7 billion for the September quarter, up 1% from a year ago. This is a very impressive level of performance, when we consider that this year; we did not launch and ship any new iPhone models during the quarter. Outside of iPhone, we grew 25% in aggregate, and had strong double-digit year-over-year revenue growth in each of our product categories. We set all-time records for Mac and Services, and a September quarter record for Wearables, Home and Accessories. We also achieved new September quarter records in the vast majority of countries that we track, including among others, The U.S., Canada Brazil, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Turkey, Russia, India, Korea, Thailand, Malaysia and Vietnam. Products revenue was $50.1 billion with very strong underlying performance across each product category. Our products outside of iPhone grew a combined 30%, despite supply constraints on iPad, Mac and Apple Watch throughout the quarter. For iPhone, through mid-September, customer demand grew double-digits. As a result of this level of sales performance and the unmatched loyalty of our customers, our installed base of active devices reached an all-time high in aggregate, and in each of our major product categories. Our Services set an all-time record of $14.5 billion, growing 16% year-over-year. We established new all-time records in many Services categories and September quarter records in each geographic segment. I’ll cover this in more detail later. Company gross margin was 38.2%. This was up 20 basis points sequentially, due to cost savings and a higher mix of services, partially offset by a different mix of products. Products’ gross margin was 29.8%, growing 10 basis points sequentially, driven by cost savings, partially offset by a different mix. Services gross margin was 66.9% decreasing 30 basis points sequentially, mainly due to a different mix. Let me get into more detail for each of our product categories; iPhone revenue was $26.4 billion, as we did not have availability of new iPhone models during the September quarter this year, which we had mentioned during our call in July. While COVID-19 and social distancing measures impacted store operations in a significant manner, demand for iPhone remained very strong. In fact, through mid-September, customer demand for our current product lineup grew double digits, and was well above our expectations. Our active installed base of iPhones reached a new all-time high, thanks to the exceptional loyalty of our customer base and strength of our ecosystem. In fact, in the U.S., the last survey of consumers from 451 Research indicates iPhone customer satisfaction of 98% for iPhone 11, 11 Pro and 11 Pro Max combined. Turning to Services, as I said, we set an all-time revenue record of $14.5 billion. We grew strong double digits and set all-time records in App Store, Cloud Services, Music, Advertising and Payment Services. We also set an all-time record in Apple Care, as in-store traffic improved and we were able to support more customers. Our new services, Apple TV+, Apple Arcade, Apple News+, and Apple Card, are also contributing to overall services growth, and continue to add users, content and features. The key drivers for our Services growth, all continue to be moving in the right direction. First, our installed base continues to grow and is at an all-time high across each major product category. Second, the number of both transacting and paid accounts on our digital content stores reached a new all-time high during the September quarter, with paid accounts increasing double digits in each of our geographic segments. Third, paid subscriptions grew more than 35 million sequentially, and we now have over 585 million paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, up 135 million from just a year ago. With this momentum, we are very confident to reach and exceed our increased target of 600 million paid subscriptions before the end of calendar 2020. Finally, as Tim mentioned, we continue to improve the breadth and the quality of our current services offerings, and are adding new service offerings that we think our customers will love, like Apple One and Apple Fitness+. Wearables, home and accessories established a new September quarter record, with revenue of $7.9 billion, up 21% year-over-year. We set September quarter records in every geographic segment and for each of the three product categories; Wearables, Home and Accessories. As a result, our wearables business is now the size of a Fortune 130 company. Importantly, Apple Watch continues to extend its reach, with over 75% of the customers purchasing Apple Watch during the quarter, being new to the product. We’re very excited about the future of this category, including the recent launches of our new products; Apple Watch Series 6 NFC, HomePod Mini, and the MagSafe ecosystem of accessories. Next, I’d like to talk about Mac; revenue was by far an all-time record at $9 billion, up 29% over last year and $1.6 billion above our previous record, in spite of supply constraints during the quarter. We grew strong double digits in each geographic segment and set all time revenue records in the Americas, and the rest of Asia Pacific, as well as September quarter records in Europe and Japan. We’ve seen amazing customer response to the new MacBook Air and MacBook Pro and very strong demand during the back to school season. IPad performance was also very impressive, with revenue of $6.8 billion, up 46%, and our highest September quarter revenue in eight years despite supply constraints. Demand exceeded our expectations around the world, as we grew very strong double digits in every geographic segment, including an all-time record in Japan and a September quarter record in the Americas. Both Mac and iPad are incredibly relevant products for our customers in the current working and learning environments, and we are delighted that the most recent surveys of consumers from 451 Research, measure customer satisfaction at 93% for Mac and 95% for iPad. With this level of customer satisfaction and with around half of the customers purchasing Mac and iPad during the quarter being new to that product, it is no surprise that the active installed base for both products reached a new all-time high. In the Enterprise market, our products are helping companies grow their business, while achieving their sustainability goals. One example is Vestas, a leading producer of wind turbines. Vestas is using Apple products and native iOS apps extensively across their operations to deliver renewable energy efficiently to customers worldwide. For instance, they use iPads to help optimize onsite construction operations, cutting crane usage on average by one day per project. Vestas field technicians are using iPhone for work orders, troubleshooting a remote collaboration, saving them 400,000 service hours annually. More recently, they’ve started piloting the augmented reality capability in iPads, to help customers visualize wind turbine installations. We ended the quarter with almost $192 billion in cash plus marketable securities. We issued $5.5 billion of new term debt, and decreased short term borrowing facilities by $6.2 billion during the quarter, leaving us with total debt of $112 billion. As a result, net cash was $79 billion at the end of the quarter, as we continue on our path to reaching a net cash neutral position over time. We returned nearly $22 billion to shareholders during the September quarter, including $3.5 billion in dividends and equivalents, and $18 billion to open market repurchases of 168.7 million Apple shares. We also retired an additional 3.1 million shares, in the final settlement of our 16th ASR. Before looking ahead, I want to provide just a few highlights for the amazing fiscal year we just completed. In fiscal ’20, we grew revenue by 6% to $274.5 billion, a new all-time record. We showed remarkable resilience throughout the year, as we were able to grow both revenue and installed base of active devices in every quarter. During the September quarter, including $3.5 billion in dividends and equivalents and $18 billion through open market repurchases of 168.7 million Apple shares. We also retired an additional 3.1 million shares in the final settlement of our 16th ASR. Before looking ahead, I want to provide just a few highlights for the amazing fiscal year we just completed. In fiscal 20, we grew revenue by 6% to $274.5 billion and new all-time record. We showed remarkable resilience throughout the year as we were able to grow both revenue and installed base of active devices in every quarter. In spite of the most challenging economic environment we can remember, we said new revenue records in the Americas, in Europe and in the rest of Asia Pacific. We grow our business outside of iPhone by 16%. We grew earnings per share 10% to a new all-time record and most importantly, we continue to deliver innovative products and services that our customers love. As we move ahead into the December quarter, I’d like to provide some color on what we are seeing, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Tejas referred to, at the beginning of the call. Given the continued uncertainty around the world in the near term, we will not be issuing revenue guidance for the coming quarter. However, we are providing some insights on our expectations for the December quarter for our product categories. These directional comments, assume that COVID related impacts to our business in November and December are similar to what we’re seeing in October. We just started shipping iPhone 12 and 12 Pro, and we’re off to a great start. We are also excited to start preorders on iPhone 12 Mini and 12 Pro Max next Friday. Given the tremendously positive response, we expect iPhone revenue to grow during the December quarter, despite shipping iPhone 12 and 12 Pro four weeks into the quarter, and iPhone 12 Mini and 12 Pro Max seven weeks into the quarter. We expect all other products in aggregate to grow double digits, and we also expect services to continue to grow double digits. For gross margin, we expect it to be similar to our most recent quarters, despite the costs associated with the launch of several new products. For OpEx, we expect to be between $10.7 billion and $10.8 billion. We expect OI&E to be around $50 million, and the tax rate to be around 16%. Finally today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.205 per share of common stock, payable November 12, 2020 to shareholders of record as of November 9, 2020. With that, let’s open the call to questions.

Cross: Thank you very much. Tim, can you talk a bit more about China? And in terms of linearity, I think Luca, you'd mentioned that services in all regions were up at an all time high. I'm not sure exactly what your comment was. But, maybe give us a little idea of, whether you're seeing any blowback or benefits in the Huawei situation and just dig a bit more into the trends we're seeing in

Cook: Thanks, Shannon. If you look at China, and look at last quarters, I'll talk about both last quarter and this quarter, the last quarter, what we saw was our non iPhone business was up strong double digit for the full quarter. And then if you look at iPhone and you look at it in two parts one, pre mid September, which is pre the point at which the previous year, we would have launched iPhones that period of time which was the bulk of the quarter iPhone was growing from a customer demand point of view. And of course not shipping new iPhones for the last two weeks of September makes that number in the aggregate a negative but the net is the underlying business in China last quarter was very strong and perhaps very different than you might think from just a quick look at the stated number In terms of this quarter, given the explanation for last quarter and the momentum that we've got, and as importantly given the initial data points that we see on iPhone 12 and iPhone 12 Pro, although we don't guide to revenue as Lucas said, I would tell you that we're confident that we will grow this quarter in China. And so we're very bullish on what's going on there. A little more color on last quarter, we had a much more significant inventory draw down on the channel side than other regions. And so that is one reason why the numbers are different than other regions. And additionally, the new products in the year ago quarter were a higher percentage of our iPhone sales than they were in other regions. So hopefully that explains what's going on in China. In terms of the market there, 5G is fairly advanced there. They're forecasting 600,000 base stations by the end of the year. And so we're entering the market at a very good time, and with the reception that we've gotten so far; we're very confident there.

Cross: Okay, great. And then can you talk a bit about just overall in the world, the cadence that you see sort of for the 5G adoption launch, what you see will be sort of the key drivers, obviously, there's a fair amount of subsidies going on in the

Maestri: I mean, obviously, we're very pleased with the level of gross margins in services, as you said; they've been expanding almost 300 basis points on a year-over-year basis. The reason for that is, of course that, we are growing the services revenue, and therefore we're getting leverage on a lot of these services, right. Some of it, as explained in the past, we have a portfolio of services that got different margin profiles. And so sometimes, depending on the mix of products we have, we can see margin expansion through mix, as well. And so, but we're also launching new services that where we need to invest heavily up front. And but we think we've been able to show, for example, this year that we've launched a lot of new services, made all the necessary investments and still being able to expand gross margin. So we feel quite confident about that trajectory that we have, that we have for services and we're very, very happy to see the customer response to really all of them, because as we've mentioned earlier, I mean, we've seen revenue records across essentially every category and in across the entire world, right? We've seen September quarter records in every geography around the world. So of the dynamics, all the levers that we have in the services business are working very well right now.

Chatterjee: Hi, thanks for taking the question. I just want to start off with the iPhone lineup here, particularly as you mentioned, the carrier subsidies that you see mixed optimistic about iPhone sales. I think just looking at some other factors here. Earlier in the year, you had mentioned that iPhone sales was seeing an uptake with stimulus checks going out to consumers helping in the consumer spending overall here in the US. So as we see some delays here on that front, are you seeing anything change on the consumer spending side as a macro impacting? How you think about iPhone sales, particularly with -- even with the new product lineup?

Cook: It's prior to mid September, we were seeing double digit growth in customer demand on iPhone. So there's a lot of momentum there. And there is a lot of momentum even much more so now given the launch of the 12 Pro and the iPhone 12. If you're asking whether it could have been even more with a different macro spending environment? I believe the answer to be yes. But you can't run the experiment. And so I don't know for sure. But I suspect that just the COVID in general take something off from a worldwide economic point of view.

Chatterjee: Perfect. And if can just follow up just following up on that COVID discussion. We are potentially here looking at a second wave, right. And I think all companies are trying to prepare for that which you discussed as well in your prepared remarks. But if you can share any kind of thoughts about how you're preparing in relation to either inventory levels, or sourcing from the supply chain, to prepare for any potential disruption, like we had earlier this year?

Cook: Well, we're doing everything we can do. But we're prioritizing safety first, obviously. And so with our stores as an example, we've come up with a new concept that puts an essentially turns the store into an express storefront. And we've implemented that in a number of places where we believe that helps from the safety of our employee and the safety of the customer's point of view, but still allows for an interaction to take place. And so we've also put a lot more people on the phones because a lot more people are reaching out to us in that way. And of course, the online store has stayed up and running through the whole of this. I think if you take some of those, the channel is doing some similar things and then some different things as well. And so I think everybody to the best of their ability is putting in contingency plans and finding a way to adapt to the environment. But it is difficult to call and there's a level of uncertainty in it, obviously.

Cook: Thanks for the question. There's just a limited number of things I can talk about is kind of a reason I didn't talk about it. We continue to be very enthusiastic about the whole Payment Services area. Apple Card is doing well. And Apple Pay is doing exceptionally well. As you can imagine in this environment, people are less want to hand over a card. So this contactless payment has taken on a different level of adoption in it that I think will never go back. The US has been lagging a bit in contactless payment. And I think that the pandemic may well get put the US on a different trajectory there. And so we are very bullish about this area and view that there are there are more things that Apple can do in this space.

Nealy: Hi, thanks for the question. I wanted to ask a little bit about the supply chain. Given your latest start from manufacturing to the flagship phone line of this year, do you think that supply will be able to meet demand through the end of the calendar? Are there any component shortages that you're seeing? Or are there any actions that you can take to increase weekly output versus last year?

Cook: Yes, Kyle, I don't know what you're talking about iPhone in particular. But if you look at iPhone, we are constrained today. And that's not a surprise where at the front end of the ramp, if you will, and how long we will be supply constrained, it's hard to predict. I mean, we haven't taken orders yet for the iPhone 12 Mini or the Pro Max either. And so those are coming in. So we shall see. But right now we are supply constrained, we are also supply constrained for avoidance of any confusion where supply constrained on Mac, we are supply constrained on iPad. And we're supply constrained on some Apple watches as well. And so we have a fair number of areas right now of focus, and we're working really, really hard to remedy those as quickly as we can.

Cook: I don't want to speak for our carrier partners that would be up to them to talk about their plans. Generally, I think it's to the vast, vast majority of carriers around the world to their interest to move customers to 5G. And I think it's in the customer's interest to move to 5G and obviously, we like that as well. And so I think you have a situation where everyone's whoring in the same direction. And that's a very different kind of situation than normally we would have. And so it is one of the things as I alluded to earlier that makes me very bullish, only one, the other things are very important to the size of the install base, the product lineup, these things are critically important as well.

Cook: Thank you, Tejas. Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining the call today. It's with great gratitude for the tireless and innovative work of every Apple team member worldwide that I share the results of a very strong quarter for Apple. We achieved an all-time revenue record of $111.4 billion. We saw strong double-digit growth across every product category, and we achieved all-time revenue records in each of our geographic segments. It is not far from many of our minds that this result caps off the most challenging year any of us can remember. And it is an understatement to say that the challenges it posed to Apple as a business paled in comparison to the challenge it posed to Apple as a community of individuals, to employees, to their families and to the communities we live in and love to call home. While these results show the central role that our products played in helping our users respond to these challenges, we are doubly aware that the work ahead of all of us to navigate the end of this pandemic, to restore normal life and prosperity in our neighborhoods and local economies and, to build back with a sense of justice is profound and urgent. We will speak to these needs and Apple's efforts throughout today's call, but I want to first offer the context of a detailed look at our results this quarter, including why we outperformed our expectations. Let's get started with hardware. We hit a new high watermark for our installed base of active devices, with growth accelerating as we passed 1.65 billion devices worldwide during the December quarter. iPhone grew by 17% year-over-year, driven by strong demand for the iPhone 12 family, and our active installed base of iPhones is now over 1 billion. The customer response to the new iPhone 12 models' unprecedented innovation from world-class cameras to the great and growing potential of 5G has been enthusiastic, even in light of the ongoing COVID-19 impact at retail locations. iPad and Mac grew by 41% and 21%, respectively, reflecting the continuing role these devices have played in our users' lives during the COVID-19 pandemic. During this quarter, availability began for both our new iPad Air as well as the first generation of Macs to feature our groundbreaking M1 chip. The demand for all of these products has been very strong. We have also continued our efforts to bring the latest iPads, enriching content and professional support to educators, students and parents. Educational districts and governments worldwide are continuing major deployments, including the largest iPad deployments ever to schools in Germany and Japan. Wearables, Home and Accessories grew by 30% year-over-year, driven by significant holiday demand for the latest Apple Watch, our entire AirPods lineup, including the new AirPods Max as well as the new HomePod mini. This broad strength across the category led to new revenue records for each of its three subgroups, and we're very excited about the road ahead for these products. Look no further than the great potential of Fitness+, which pairs with Apple Watch to deliver real-time on-screen fitness data alongside world-class workouts by the world's best trainers. There are new sessions added each week, and customers are loving the flexibility, challenge and fun of these classes as well as how the pairing with Apple Watch pushes you to achieve your fitness goals. This deep integration of hardware, software and services, have always defined our approach here, and it has delivered an all-time quarterly Services record of $15.8 billion. This was the first quarter of the Apple One bundle, which brings together many of our great services into an easy subscription and with new content being added to these services every day, we feel very optimistic about where we are headed. The App Store ecosystem has been so important as individuals, families and businesses worldwide evolve and adapt to the COVID-19 pandemic, and we want to make sure that this unrivaled engine of innovation and opportunity continues. This quarter, we also took a significant new step to help smaller developers continue to experiment, innovate and scale the latest great app ideas. The App Store Small Business Program reduces the commission on the sale of digital goods and services to 15% for small businesses earning less than $1 million a year. The program launched on January 1st and we are already hearing from developers about how this change represents a transformation in their potential to create and grow on the App Store. Tomorrow is International Privacy Day, and we continue to set new standards to protect users' right to privacy, not just for our own products but to be the ripple in the pond that moves the whole industry forward. Most recently, we're in the process of deploying new requirements across the App Store ecosystem that give users more knowledge about and new tools to control the ways that apps gather and share their personal data. The winter holiday season is always a busy times for us and our products, but this year was unique. We had a record number of device activations during the last week of the quarter. And as COVID-19 kept us apart, we saw the highest volume of FaceTime calls ever this Christmas. As always, we could not have made so many holidays special without our talented and dedicated retail teams who helped us achieve a new all-time revenue record for retail, driven by very strong performance in our online store. Particularly, after the events of the last few weeks, we are focused on how we can help a moment of great national need. Because none of us should have any illusions about the challenges we face as we began a new chapter in the American story. Hope for healing, for unity and for progress begins with and depends on addressing the things that continue to wound us. In our communities, we see how every burden from COVID-19, to the resulting economic challenges, to the closure of in-person learning for students, falls heaviest on those who have always faced structural barriers to opportunity and equality. This month, Apple announced major new commitments through a $100 million Racial Equity & Justice Initiative. The Propel Center, launched with a $25 million commitment and with the support of historically black colleges and universities across the country, will help support the next-generation of leaders in fields ranging from machine learning to app development to entrepreneurship and design. And our new Apple Developer Academy in Downtown Detroit will be the first of its kind in the United States. Detroit has a vibrant culture of black entrepreneurship, including over 50,000 black-owned businesses. We want to accelerate the potential of the app economy here, knowing there is no shortage of good ideas in such a creative, resilient and dedicated community. Finally, we're committing $35 million across two investments in Harlem Capital and the Clear Vision Impact Fund that support, accelerate and grow minority-owned businesses in areas of great potential and need. In December, we concluded an unmatched year of giving. Since the inception of the Apple Giving Program in 2011, Apple employees have donated nearly $600 million and volunteered more than 1.6 million hours to over 34,000 organizations of every stride. Through our partnership with Product Red, we've adapted our 14-year $250 million effort to support HIV and AIDS work globally to ensure that care of COVID. That includes delivering millions of units of personal protective equipment to health care providers in Zambia. And here in the United States, even with COVID's effects, we are ahead of schedule on our multiyear commitment to invest $350 billion throughout the American economy. As proud as this makes us, we know there is much more to be done. Looking forward, we continue to contend with the COVID-19 pandemic but we must also now work to imagine what we will inherit on the other side. When a disease recedes, we cannot simply assume that healing follows. Even now, we see the deep scars that this period has left in our communities. Trust has been compromised, opportunities have been lost, entire portions of our lives that we took for granted, schools for children, meetings with our colleagues, small businesses that have endured for generations have simply disappeared. It will take a society-wide effort across the public and private sectors as individuals and communities, every one of us, to ensure that what's ahead of us is not simply the end of a disease, but the beginning of something durable and hopeful for those who gave, suffered and endured during this time. At Apple, we have every intention to be partners in this effort, and we look forward to working in communities around the world to make it possible. And as this chapter of uncertainty continues, so will our tireless work to help our customers stay safe, connected and well.

Maestri: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. We started our fiscal 2021 with exceptional business and financial performance during the December quarter, as we set all-time records for revenue, operating income, net income, earnings per share and operating cash flow. We are thrilled with the way our teams continued to innovate and execute throughout this period of elevated uncertainty. Our revenue reached an all-time record of $111.4 billion, an increase of nearly $20 billion or 21% from a year ago. We grew strong double digits in each of our product categories, with all-time records for iPhone, Wearables, Home and Accessories and services as well as a December quarter record for Mac. We also achieved double-digit growth and new all-time records in each of our five geographic segments and in the vast majority of countries that we track. Products revenue was an all-time record of $95.7 billion, up 21% over a year ago. As a consequence of this level of sales performance and the unmatched loyalty of our customers, our installed base of active devices passed 1.65 billion during the December quarter and reached an all-time record in each of our major product categories. Our Services set an all-time record of $15.8 billion, growing 24% year-over-year. We established new all-time records in most service categories and December quarter records in each geographic segment. I'll cover our Services business in more detail later. Company gross margin was 39.8%, up 160 basis points sequentially, thanks to leverage from higher sales and a strong mix. Products gross margin was 35.1%, growing 530 basis points sequentially, driven by leverage and mix. Services gross margin was 68.4%, up 150 basis points sequentially, mainly due to a different mix. Net income, diluted earnings per share and operating cash flow were all-time records. Net income was $28.8 billion, up $6.5 billion or 29% over last year. Diluted earnings per share were $1.68, up 35% over last year and operating cash flow was $38.8 billion, an improvement of $8.2 billion. Let me get into more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue was a record $65.6 billion, growing 17% year-over-year as demand for the iPhone 12 family was very strong despite COVID-19 and social distancing measures, which have impacted store operations in a significant manner. Our active installed base of iPhones reached a new all-time high and has now surpassed 1 billion devices, thanks to the exceptional loyalty of our customer base and strength of our ecosystem. In fact, in the U.S., the latest survey of consumers from 451 Research indicates iPhone customer satisfaction of 98% for the iPhone 12 family. Turning to Services. As I said, we reached an all-time revenue record of $15.8 billion and set all-time records in App Store, cloud services, Music, advertising, AppleCare and payment services. Our new service offerings, Apple TV+, Apple Arcade, Apple News+, Apple Card, Apple Fitness+ as well as the Apple One bundle are also contributing to overall Services growth and continue to add users, content and features. The key drivers for our

Services growth all continue to move in the right direction: first, our installed base growth has accelerated and each major product category; second, the number of both transacting and paid accounts on our digital content stores reached a new all-time high during the December quarter, with paid accounts increasing double digits in each of our geographic segments; third, paid subscriptions continue to grow nicely, and we exceeded our target of 600 million paid subscriptions before the end of calendar 2020. During the December quarter, we added more than 35 million sequentially, and we now have more than 620 million paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, up 140 million from just a year ago. Finally, we continue to improve the breadth and quality of our current Services offerings and are adding new services that we think our customers will love. For example, Apple Music recently released its biggest product update ever with features like Listen Now, all new Search, personal radio stations and auto play. 90% of Apple Music users on iOS 14 have already used these new features. In payment services, we continue to expand our coverage, with nearly 90% of stores in the United States now accepting Apple Pay so that customers can easily have a touchless payments experience. Wearables, Home and Accessories grew 30% year-over-year to $13 billion, setting new all-time revenue records in every geographic segment. As a result of this strong performance, our Wearables business is now the size of a Fortune 120 company. Importantly, Apple Watch continues to extend its reach, with nearly 75% of the customers purchasing Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product. We're very excited about the future of this category and believe that our integration of hardware, software and services uniquely positions us to provide great customer experience in this category. Next, I'd like to talk about Mac. We set a December quarter record for revenue at $8.7 billion up 21% over last year. We grew strong-double-digits in each geographic segment and set all-time revenue records in Europe and rest of Asia-Pacific as well as December quarter records in the Americas, Greater China and in Japan. This performance was driven by strong demand for the new MacBook Air, MacBook Pro and Mac mini, all powered by our brand-new M1 chip. iPad performance was also very impressive with revenue of $8.4 billion, up 41%. We grew strong -- very strong double digits in every geographic segment, including an all-time record in Japan. During the quarter, the new -- the all-new iPad Air became available and customer response has been terrific. Both Mac and iPad are incredibly relevant products for our customers in the current working and learning environments. And we are delighted that the most recent surveys of consumers from 451 Research measured customer satisfaction at 93% for Mac and 94% for iPad. With this level of customer satisfaction and with around half of the customers purchasing Mac and iPad during the quarter being new to that product, the active installed base for both products continues to grow nicely and reached new all-time highs. In the enterprise market, we are seeing many businesses shifting their technology investment in response to COVID. One example is our businesses are handling their hundreds of millions of office desk phones while more employees are working remotely. Last quarter, Mitsubishi UFJ Bank, one of the largest banks in the world, announced that it will be replacing 75% of its fixed phones with iPhones. By doing so, it expects to realize significant cost savings while providing a secure mobile platform to employees. We're also pleased with the rapid adoption of the Mac Employee Choice Program among the world's leading businesses, who are seeing improved productivity, increased employee satisfaction and talent retention. With the introduction of M1-powered Macs, we're excited to extend these experiences to an even broader range of customers and employees, especially in times of increased remote working. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with almost $196 billion in cash plus marketable securities and retired $1 billion of maturing debt, leaving us with total debt of $112 billion. As a result, net cash was $84 billion at the end of the quarter. We returned over $30 billion to shareholders during the December quarter, including $3.6 billion in dividends and equivalents and $24 billion through open market repurchases of 200 million Apple shares as we continue on our path to reaching a net cash neutral position over time. As we move ahead into the March quarter, I'd like to provide some color on what we are seeing, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Tejas referred to at the beginning of the call. Given the continued uncertainty around the world in the near term, we will not be guiding to a specific revenue range. However, we are providing some directional insights, assuming that COVID-related impacts of our business do not worsen from our current assumptions for the quarter. For total company revenue, we believe growth will accelerate on a year-over-year basis, and in aggregate, follow typical seasonality on a sequential basis.

At the product category level, keep in mind two items: first, during the March quarter last year, we saw elevated activity in our digital services as lockdowns occurred around the world, so our Services business faces a tougher year-over-year comparison; second, we believe the year-over-year growth in the Wearables, Home and Accessories category will decelerate compared to Q1. As you know, we were chasing demand on AirPods last year as we expanded channel inventory from Q1 to Q2. This year, we plan to decrease AirPods channel inventory as is typical after the holiday quarter. We expect gross margin to be similar to the December quarter. We expect OpEx to be between $10.7 billion and $10.9 billion. We expect OI&E to be up around $50 million and our tax rate to be around 17%. Finally, today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.205 per share of common stock payable on February 11, 2021, to shareholders of record as of

Gala: Thank you, Luca. We ask that you limit yourself to two questions. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Cross: Tim, can you talk a bit about what you're seeing in China? Clearly, significant sequential growth, which I think has a lot to do with iPhone. But I'm curious, both from an iPhone as well as your other product categories, what you're seeing and how much back to normal you think the Chinese market is?

Cook: Yes. China was more than an iPhone story. iPhone did do very well there. And sort of like the world, if you look at both switchers and upgraders, we were up year-over-year, and China also had a record number of upgraders during the quarter, the most we've ever seen in a quarter. I think probably some portion of this was that people probably delayed purchasing in the previous quarter as rumors started appearing about an iPhone. Keep in mind that 5G in China is -- the network is well established. And the overwhelming majority of phones being sold are 5G phones. And so I think there was some level of anticipation for us delivering an iPhone with 5G. And so, iPhone did extremely well. However, the other products did as well. I mean, we could not have turned in a performance like we did with only iPhone. iPad did extremely well, far beyond the Company average. Mac was about the Company average. Wearables, Home and Accessories was above the Company average. And so if you really look at it, we did really well across the Board there. In terms of COVID, I think they're -- at least for last quarter, they were beat -- sort of beyond COVID, very much in the recovery stage. This quarter, there are different reports about some cases in some places and lockdowns occurring but we have not seen that in our business as yet. Of course, those cases are much smaller than the ones in other countries.

Cross: Right. I guess the other thing I was curious about, with regard to the Services business, if we could dig a little bit more, I think this is one of the first times when Luca, you talked about Apple TV+, Arcade, Apple Pay, some of the smaller services actually kind of moving the needle. And then I was also curious, you had a number of stores closed at least later in the quarter, and that typically has impacted some of your AppleCare revenue and yet you outperformed. So, maybe if you could talk about a bit more about the drivers of the Services revenue?

Maestri: Yes. I mean, really, it's been strong across the Board. There are two businesses during COVID that have been impacted negatively, and then we talked about it in the past. One is AppleCare. Obviously, when the stores are closed, it's tougher, of course, for customers to have the interaction with us. And advertising, which is -- it's in line with the overall level of economic activity. What happened during the December quarter is that in-store traffic improved. And so AppleCare, we grew -- we didn't grow as much as company average but we grew in AppleCare, set an all-time record there in spite of the fact that, yes, we are running, particularly in December, we started closing a few stores, particularly here in the United States but also in Western Europe. But in total, we were able to support more customers than in past quarters. And we also saw a sequential acceleration in advertising and so that also helped the overall growth rate. Clearly, the strength was in digital services, in the App Store, in cloud services, in Music. Those were the services that really delivered very, very strong performance.

Sacconaghi: I also have one for Luca and one for Tim. Luca, I was wondering if we could just probe a little bit more into iPhone. Maybe you can just -- you talked about a drawdown in channel inventory last quarter. Our iPhone channel inventory is sort of at normal levels now exiting Q1. And should we be thinking about above-seasonal iPhone growth, given that you're still not in supply-demand balance and you had fewer selling days in fiscal Q1? Should we be thinking about sort of above-seasonal iPhone growth looking into Q2?

Maestri: So on the December performance, as you know, Toni, this was a very different cycle because we launched at a different time than usual. And so, we had an initial part of the quarter where, obviously, we didn't have the new phones. And then as we launched the new phones, we also did the channel fill that typically happens, to a certain extent, in the September quarter. At the end of the quarter, the demand has been very strong. And so we've been constrained, as I said, on -- especially in the Pro models. At the end of December, we exited with a level of iPhone channel inventory, which was slightly below a year ago. So we -- and we still had some level of supply constraints, which we believe we're going to be able to solve during the March quarter. In terms of the sequential change, we talked about -- during the prepared remarks, we talked about total company average, and we said that we expect that sequential progression to be similar to the typical seasonality that you've seen in past years. Certainly, last year is not typical because of COVID. But if you go back, fiscal '17, '18, '19, that's our typical seasonal progression. And we mentioned a couple of product categories, Services and Wearables, where we're going to be having a slightly more difficult compare.

Sacconaghi: Okay. And then, Tim, I was wondering if you could just comment more broadly around growth for Apple and sources of growth. The Company this year is going to be well over $300 billion in revenue. Historically, you've issued acquisitions. And I'm wondering if you could comment whether you still feel confident that Apple has Apple organic growth opportunities and that you don't believe acquisitions are an important source of growth? And then I think perhaps most importantly, as you look out, let's say, over the next five years, what do you think is a realistic revenue growth rate for Apple going forward?

Cook: I think, Chris, it's Tim. I think subsidies always help, that anything that reduces the price to the customer is good for the customer and obviously good for the carrier that's doing it and good for us as well. And so, it's a win across the board. I believe that, at least based on what I see right now is that there would be probably continuing to have quite a bit of competition in the market, if you're talking about the U.S. market for customers as the carriers work to get more customers to move to 5G. Outside of the U.S., the subsidies are not used in all geographies, and so it really varies greatly by country. Some of them are separate completely, the handset and the service.

Suva: It's amazing how your company has pivoted and progressed through this uncertain time in society. A lot of the pushback we get on our view on Apple is that everyone around them or that they know developed countries has an iPhone or Apple product and the market is kind of being saturated some. But when I look at other countries like India, I believe statistically, you are materially below that in market share. So are you doing active efforts there? It seems like there's been some news reports of moving supply chain there. Or you recently opened up an Apple Store. How should we think about that? Because it just seems like you're really not full market share equally around the world.

Cook: Yes. There are several markets, as I alluded to before. India is one of those, where our share is quite low. It did improve from the year-ago quarter. Our business roughly doubled over that period of time. And so we feel very good about the trajectory. We are doing a number of things in the area. We put the online store there, for example, and last quarter was the first full quarter of the online store. And that has gotten a great reaction to it and has helped us achieve the results that we got to last quarter. We're also going in there with retail stores in the future. And so we look for that to be another great initiative and we continue to develop the channel as well. And so there's lots of things, not only in India but in several of the other markets that you might name where our share is lower than we would like. And I -- again, I would also say, even in the developed markets, when you look at our share, definitely, everybody doesn't have an iPhone, not even close. And so, we really don't have a significant share in any market. So, there's headroom left even in those developed markets where you might hear that.

Cook: Thanks, Tejas. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining the call today. Apple is proud to report another strong quarter, one where we set new March quarter records for both revenue and earnings, besting our year ago revenue performance by 54%. Reflecting both the enduring ways our products have helped our users meet this moment in their own lives as well as the optimism consumers seem to feel about better days ahead, we set new March quarter records in every geographic segment, and success was broadly distributed across our product categories. Mac and Services delivered all-time record results, and we set new March quarter records for iPhone and Wearables, Home and Accessories. To provide some color on our results, let's turn to our product categories. We saw a very strong performance for iPhone, which grew 66% year-over-year driven by the strong popularity of the iPhone 12 family. With unmatched 5G capability, the best camera system ever in an iPhone and advanced durability from ceramic shield, this family of devices is popular with both upgraders and new customers alike. And just last week, we unveiled an all-new purple finish for iPhone 12 and 12 Mini. As has been the case throughout the pandemic, iPad and Mac continue to be critically important tools for our customers. Over the past year, tens of millions of iPads and Macs have been deployed to help students learn, creators create, and to enhance remote work in all of its forms. This has helped iPad grow very strong double digits to its highest March quarter revenue in nearly a decade. On Mac, fueled by the M1, we set an all-time revenue record continuing the momentum for the product category. In fact, the last three quarters for Mac have been its three best quarters ever. Last week, both iPad and Mac took a big step forward. We debuted a radically redesigned brand-new iMac designed around M1's unmatched capabilities, and we've brought M1 to iPad for the first time in the new iPad Pro with 5G capability and a Liquid Retina XDR display. It was a quarter of sustained strength for Wearables, Home and Accessories, which grew by 25% year-over-year. Apple Watch is a global success story, and the category set March quarter records in each geographic segment, thanks to strong performance from both Apple Watch Series 6 and Apple Watch SE. It's an exciting and busy period ahead for Wearables, Home and Accessories with the launch of the next-generation Apple TV 4K and our newest accessory, AirTag. AirTag builds on the powerful and incredibly useful Find My experience, helping users privately and securely keep track of the items that matter most to them. Third-party accessories and products can also make use of the Find My network guaranteeing a great experience no matter what products you choose to use. Turning to Services. We achieved growth of 27% year-over-year and set new records for services in each of our geographic segments. We continue to enhance and improve our current service offerings from Apple Music to Apple News while continuing to launch new services that enhance our customers' lives. Just last week, we introduced Apple Card family which reinvents how you can share credit cards and build credit together. We also announced Apple Podcast subscriptions, a global marketplace for listeners to discover premium content from their favorite creators and storytellers. While we're on the topic of services, in many ways, this quarter showed the unique value to customers created by Apple's belief in the deep integration of hardware, software, and services. Across our products and throughout our software ecosystem, we continue to deploy industry-leading new tools to protect users' fundamental right to privacy. In addition to the App Store privacy nutrition labels that we discussed on last quarter's call, we're proud to have launched the full implementation of App Tracking Transparency. This powerful, yet simple idea gives users a choice over how their data is used and shared across the apps that they love and use every day. No matter what device you enjoy it from, it is a milestone period for Apple TV+, racking up many new award nominations and wins, including its first Oscar nominations. Ted Lasso, in particular, has been recognized with a multitude of awards and nominations including most recently, an AFI Program of the Year Recognition, Writers Guild of America Awards, and a clean sweep at the Critics Choice Awards. Apple TV+ also continues to be a place where we can tell stories that matter and lift up important voices and experiences like our new upcoming content partnership with Malala, our latest original documentary special The Year the Earth Changed narrated by the legendary David Attenborough and released to commemorate Earth Day. This is, of course, just one example of how Apple lives its values and operationalizes the idea that to whom much is given, much is expected. To begin with our environmental efforts, just last week, we marked a milestone Earth Day on multiple fronts. In addition to the progress we've made in our own efforts to achieve our pledge of a net zero carbon footprint by 2030 across our entire supply chain and use of our products, we're proud to play a role in the growing ripple change taking place across the private sector. As of this month, 110 of our suppliers have joined us in our renewable energy commitment, and we will bring online nearly 8 gigawatts of new clean energy, the equivalent of taking 3.4 million gas-powered vehicles off the road each year. Through Apple's $4.7 billion in green bonds and related efforts, we've supported transformative environmental projects around the world from clean energy initiatives in China to two of the world's largest onshore wind turbines in Denmark to 180-acre solar project outside Reno, Nevada and many more. We're also keenly focused on how this wave of green innovation can lead to equitably shared prosperity. Through our new $200 million Restore Fund, we're helping local and rural communities around the world build sustainable industries around working for us creating opportunities and removing up to 1 million metric tons of carbon from the atmosphere every year. And here in the United States, we started a green impact accelerator, investing and supporting minority-owned businesses at the forefront of environmental fields. As we look forward to WWDC, we're taking new steps to support and foster the unmatched community of developers we work with here in the United States and around the world. I'm particularly excited about our inaugural Entrepreneur Camp for black founders and developers. Building on the success of our Entrepreneur Camp program, which we began in 2019, this program gives this profoundly innovative community of developers the chance to develop next-level technical skills through hands-on technology labs, and with our partners at Harlem Capital, it also shares insights and mentorship on building and scaling an app business. We were proud to announce that we have expanded and accelerated our commitment to the U.S. economy. Over the next five years, we will invest $430 billion, creating 20,000 jobs in the process. The investments will support American innovation and drive economic benefits in every state, including a new North Carolina campus and job creating investments in innovative fields like silicon engineering and 5G technology. Looking forward, whether you're running a business or just hoping to see family again after more than a year, it's tempting at this moment to let hope about the end of the COVID-19 pandemic outstripped clear-eyed realism about the challenges we still face. In many places around the world, new waves of infections driven by even more infectious variants of the virus are driving new lockdowns. Instead of simply assuming that the end is in sight, we at Apple are doing our part to make it a reality. Beginning with an enduring and uncompromising commitment to the health and safety of our teams, and extending well beyond our walls into the communities where we work. We also want to do everything we can to connect users to life-saving vaccinations that are in ever greater supply. Through Apple Maps, for example, we now showcase vaccine site locations here in the United States, building on our maps of testing locations in many countries around the world. It's worth remembering for much more than financial reasons or year-ago compares, just how we felt at this time last year when everything we knew had to change. Plains set grounded, entire business districts were empty and silent. People left groceries or care packages sitting in the garage or in the hall overnight in recognition of all that we didn't know and therefore, had to imagine. Thanks to researchers and scientists, doctors and nurses, everyone who can put a shot in an arm and even just check a name off a list. We have reached new days of hopeful resolve. Our work is not done, but as I said a year ago, while we can't say for sure how many chapters are in this book, we can have confidence that the ending will be a good one.

Maestri: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. We are extremely pleased to report record results for our March quarter despite continued uncertainty in the macro environment. We've been operating in new ways for over a year, and we could not be more proud of the way our team continues to execute and innovate at unprecedented levels. Our revenue reached a March quarter record of $89.6 billion, an increase of over $31 billion or 54% from a year ago. We grew very strong double digits in each of our product categories, with all-time records for Mac and for Services and March quarter records for iPhone and for Wearables, Home and Accessories. We also set new March quarter records in every geographic segment with growth of at least 35% in each one of them. Products revenue was a March quarter record of $72.7 billion, up 62% over a year ago. As a result of this level of sales performance and the unmatched loyalty of our customers, our installed base of active devices reached a new all-time record in each of our major product categories. Our services set an all-time record of $16.9 billion, growing 27% over a year ago. We established new records in each geographic segment and in most service categories. I will provide more details about the performance of our services business later. Company gross margin was 42.5%, up 270 basis points from last quarter driven by cost savings, a strong mix and favorable foreign exchange. Products gross margin was 36.1%, growing 100 basis points sequentially also thanks to cost savings and FX, partially offset by seasonal loss of leverage. Services gross margin was 70.1%, up 170 basis points sequentially and mainly due to a different mix. Net income of $23.6 billion, diluted earnings per share of $1.40 and operating cash flow of $24 billion were all March quarter records by a wide margin. Let me get into more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenues had a March quarter record of $47.9 billion, growing 66% year-over-year as the iPhone 12 family continue to be in high demand. Performance was consistently strong across the world as we grew strong double digits in each geographic segment and set March quarter records in most markets we track. Thanks to the exceptional loyalty of our customer base and strength of our ecosystem, our active installed base of iPhones reached a new all-time high. In the U.S. the latest survey of consumers from 451 Research indicates customer satisfaction of over 99% for the iPhone 12 family. Turning to Services. We reached an all-time revenue record of $16.9 billion with all-time records for the App Store, cloud services, music, video, advertising and payment services. Our new service offerings, Apple TV+, Apple Arcade, Apple News Fitness+ as well as the Apple One bundle, continue to scale across users, content and features and are contributing to overall services growth. The key drivers for our services business all continue to move in the right direction. First, our installed base growth has accelerated and reach an all-time high across each major product category. Second, the number of both transacting and paid accounts on our digital content stores reached a new all-time high during the March quarter, with paid accounts increasing double digits in each of our geographic segments. Third, paid subscriptions continued to show strong growth. During the March quarter, we added more than 40 million paid subs sequentially, and we have now reached more than 660 million paid subscriptions across the services on our platform. This is up $145 million from just a year ago and twice the number of paid subscriptions we are only 2.5 years ago. Finally, we're adding new services that we think our customers will love, while also continuing to improve the breadth and quality of our current service offerings. For example, Apple Arcade launched its biggest expansion yet adding incredibly fun games to the catalog, including new exclusive Arcade originals, along with two entirely new categories, App Store greats and timeless classics. Apple Pay continues to expand geographically, launching in Mexico and in South Africa, bringing our payment service to six continents. Wearables, Home and Accessories grew 25% year-over-year to $7.8 billion, setting new March quarter revenue records in every geographic segment. Apple Watch continues to extend its reach, with nearly 75% of the customers purchasing Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product. We're very excited about the future of this category and believe that our integration of hardware, software and services uniquely positions us to provide great customer experiences in this category. Next, I'd like to talk about Mac. We set an all-time revenue record of $9.1 billion, up 70% over last year, and grew very strongly in each geographic segment with all-time revenue records in Europe and rest of Asia Pacific and March quarter records in the Americas, Greater China and Japan. This amazing performance was driven by the very enthusiastic customer response to our new Macs powered by the M1 chip. iPad performance was also outstanding with revenue of $7.8 billion up 79%. We grew very strongly in every geographic segment with an all-time record in Japan and a March quarter record in rest of Asia Pacific. Both Mac and iPad are incredibly relevant products for our customers in the current working and learning environments, and we are delighted that the most recent surveys of U.S. consumers from 451 Research measured customer satisfaction at 91% for Mac and 94% for iPad. With this level of customer satisfaction, and with around half of the customers purchasing Mac and iPad during the quarter being new to that product, the active installed base for both products continues to grow nicely and reached new all-time highs. In the enterprise market, customers across many industries are accelerating their adoption of iPhone 12 and 5G as a key platform for the future of their business. Delta Airlines, for example, is putting iPhone 12 and 5G connectivity into the hands of flight attendants so they can provide the best passenger service possible as air travel rebounds. Openreach in the U.K. has started equipping tens of thousands of field engineers with iPhone 12 to speed up their deployment of broadband services to homes around the country. And UCHealth, a large health care provider in Colorado, was able to reduce per patient vaccination time from 3 minutes to only 30 seconds largely by moving from PC stations to iPhones. This has allowed their staff to rapidly scan and register new patients and vastly increase their daily vaccination capacity. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with over $204 billion in cash plus marketable securities. We issued $14 billion of new term debt and retired $3.5 billion of term debt leaving us with total debt of almost $122 billion. As a result, net cash was $83 billion at the end of the quarter. This strong position allows us to continue to invest confidently in our future, while also returning value to our shareholders. We are innovating and investing at an unprecedented pace, including accelerating our investment in the United States with our new commitment to contribute more than $430 billion and 20,000 jobs to the country over the next five years. As we continue to execute at an extremely high level, we were also able to return nearly $23 billion to shareholders during the March quarter. This included $3.4 billion in dividends and equivalents and $19 billion through open market repurchases of 147 million Apple shares. We continue to believe there is great value in our stock and maintain our target of reaching a net cash neutral position over time. Given the confidence we have in our business today and into the future, our Board has authorized an additional $90 billion for share repurchases. We're also raising our dividend by 7% to $0.22 per share, and we continue to plan for annual increases in the dividend going forward. As we move ahead into the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Tejas referred to at the beginning of the call. Given the continued uncertainty around the world in the near term, we are not providing revenue guidance, but we are sharing some directional insights assuming that the COVID-related impacts to our business do not worsen from what we are seeing today for the current quarter. We expect our June quarter revenue to grow strong double digits year-over-year. However, we believe that the sequential revenue decline from the March quarter to the June quarter will be greater than in prior years for two reasons. First, keep in mind that due to the later launch timing and strong demand, iPhone only achieved supply-demand balance during the March quarter. This will cause a steeper sequential decline than usual. Second, we believe supply constraints will have a revenue impact of $3 billion to $4 billion in the June quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 41.5% and 42.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $11.1 billion and $11.3 billion. We expect OI&E to be around $50 million and our tax rate to be around 14.5%. Finally, reflecting the approved 7% dividend increase I just mentioned, today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.22 per share of common stock payable on May 13, 2021, to shareholders of record as of

Cook: Sure, Shannon. We saw double-digit increases on a year-over-year basis on both the new to iPhone and upgraders. So -- and in fact, in the March quarter, there was actually a record number of upgraders for a March quarter. And so we like what we see. It's obviously the early days of 5G. Different countries are in different points. But penetration is still -- on a global level, is still low at this point. And so a lot of the 5G upgrades will be in front of us, not behind us. You see in China, things have moved quickly to 5G. They're moving quickly in the United States. But a lot of the other regions are slower to adopt and slower to gain coverage in 5

Cross: Okay. And then, Luca, can you talk about gross margin? I mean 42% is higher than it's been that I can kind of remember actually at this point, so maybe if you talk about the drivers of gross margin, and maybe if there were any offsets from higher component costs or the logistics costs that obviously were overshadowed by currency and other things?

Maestri: Yes, Shannon. Yes, we did 42.5% during March, and we've guided to similar, slightly lower levels for June. So for March, we were up 270 basis points sequentially, really driven by three major factors. Cost savings, which has been good for us during the cycle. A really strong mix, a strong mix on iPhone, but in general, across all product categories, and that obviously was helpful. And foreign exchange sequentially, again, from December to March, was favorable 90 basis points. So that helped as well. So those are the three major factors there. As we transition into June, as you know, that we will expect some level of deleverage but that will be offset by cost savings. Foreign exchange doesn't have much of an impact as we go from

Huberty: This was a pretty unbelievable quarter, and investors are going to ask about the sustainability of current demand trends, especially as you lap some of the benefits from COVID in areas like services and Mac later this year. So I know you don't guide beyond or provide an outlook beyond the next quarter. But can you talk from a high level over the next year, which segments do you see the opportunity to maintain strong revenue growth versus where is it reasonable to assume there will be some digestion as consumers shift their spending priorities?

Cook: If you sort of look at the different products, iPhone, I've already mentioned some of the great momentum that we had there. Keep in mind that the compare that we're running to would be the quarter, the Q2 of last year is the quarter that China would have entered a shutdown first and then the rest of the world entered the shutdown in middle part of March. And so part of the growth is compared -- is the comparison point. But that said, the results were fabulous across the board. The shortages that Luca spoke about in the color that he provided on the future, affect primarily the iPad and the Mac. And so we'll have some challenges in there, and challenges in meeting the demand that we've got. The demand feels very strong right now. Both on the Mac side, you have the combination of M1 and work from home and remote learning. And then iPad, you've got remote learning and work from home as well. And the product that we just announced is really killer, the iPad Pro with the M1 in it. And so there's a lot of great things of the strength of the product cycle in addition to the trends that we're seeing in the marketplace. And where this pandemic will end, it seems like many companies will be operating in a hybrid kind of mode. And so it would seem that work from home and the productivity of working from home will remain very critical. If you look at Wearables then, the watch had a fabulous quarter. And I still think we're in the early innings on the watch. The number of new -- people that are new to the watch is almost three out of four. And so this is a long way from being a mature market. And so -- and then the Services by itself has really accelerated.

Huberty: And then, Luca, as I look at inventory plus vendor nontrade receivables, that grew only about 8% this quarter which is a big deceleration from last quarter. Should we read into that as a leading indicator for how we should think about the revenue growth deceleration in the business as the world normalizes? Or were there some supply disruptions during the quarter that caused you to drain inventory and create that tightness that you're talking about for June?

Maestri: No. On -- as you think about the June quarter, Katy, I would point you to what we said in our prepared remarks around the two factors that will influence our normal seasonality, right? One is the fact that iPhone, we launched iPhone later than usual during this cycle. And so we reached supply-demand balance only during the March quarter, which makes obviously the sequential decline steeper than usual. And then this $3 billion or $4 billion of supply constraints that Tim just said, primarily on iPad and Mac. So as you look at your model and you obviously can look at our numbers that we've done in the past, I think you can try to gauge that. From a channel inventory standpoint, we did what we normally do during a March quarter. So we reduced inventory as it's typical on iPhone. We exited within our target range. So I would say that on the inventory side, it was pretty straightforward Obviously, given that the supply constraints are on the iPad and on the Mac, we wish we had more inventory of iPad and

Mohan: Tim, your content offerings are still at very compelling price points. And you've seen other content providers, whether it be Spotify, Hulu, Netflix, all announced price increases recently. I'm just wondering how you're thinking about pricing as it pertains to your offering here? And if you could share any stats around the uptake of

Mohan: Okay. As my follow-up, Luca, on the June quarter guide, when you talk about the sequential decline being a little bit about perhaps the 13% or low-teens percent that we've seen historically. Are the supply constraints of the $3 billion, $4 billion impact included in that? Or is that in addition to sort of the more than average sequential decline that you're referring to? And any color on what specifically is driving the supply constraints of the subcomponent level?

Maestri: So when you look at our normal seasonality, and you've mentioned a percentage that is really an average of several years, what we're saying is that we believe that the sequential decline this year is going to be higher than that. And it's a combination of the two factors, right? One is the timing of the launch and then the very high demand for iPhone during the March quarter. And the $3 billion to $4 billion supply constraints that we mentioned. Yes, and the constraints come from the semiconductor shortages that are affecting many, many industries, and it's a combination of the shortages as well as the very, very high level of demand that we are seeing for both iPad and Mac. For Mac, for example, if you just -- just to keep it into context, the last three quarters of Mac have been the best three quarters ever in the history of the product, right? So we are experiencing an incredible level of demand, which certainly is favored by working from home and learning from home environment, but also by the incredible amount of new products and innovation that we put into the products that we launched during the last couple of quarters.

Rakers: Congratulations on the great quarter. I wanted to go back to iPhone. As we think about the iPhone 12 cycle, appreciating that you guys don't give actual shipment numbers, it would appear though that the mix has been quite healthy. So I'm wondering if you could give us any context of what in this cycle you're seeing in terms of the mix relative to past cycles? Is that mix sustainable? I'm just trying to understand kind of the mix of -- within the iPhones and how that's driving,

Cook: Aaron, let me give you a little color on that. The iPhone 12 of the -- the iPhone 12 family are or more broadly affect all iPhones. The iPhone 12 is the most popular. But we did see very strong sales of the Pro portion of the family as well, the Pro plus the Pro Max. And so the revenue that you're seeing is a function of unit growth and revenue per unit growth. Does that help?

Kumar: Congratulations on a very nice quarter. Question on semis supply as well. You just beat by a substantial margin on the top line in the March quarter. I'm curious what went in your favor to be able to secure that kind of supply that you were able to beat by, I think it was $11 million or so?

Cook: We did not have a material supply shortage in Q2. And so how are we able to do that? You wind up collapsing all of your buffers and offsets. And that happens all the way through the supply chain. And so that enables you to go a bit higher than what we were expecting to sell when we went into the quarter 90 days ago.

Kumar: That's very helpful. And then for my follow-up, I know there's a lot of moving parts, Tim, but with the economy sort of reopening here in the U.S., and you mentioned about supply constraints possibly on the Mac and the iPad. I was curious if I can get your thoughts, maybe just color-wise, on what you would expect for those two categories,

Cook: Well, we don't predict a rev guide to product-level detail. We're not even guiding to the top level at this point because of COVID. And so I'll sidestep that question. But I would point to Luca's point earlier about the shortages and those shortages primarily affect i

Sankar: Congrats on a fantastic quarter. First question for Tim or Luca. The Greater China sales were very strong in the March quarter. Can you give some color on what drove this strength. Which hardware products or services enabled the solid outperformance in

Chatterjee: Okay. Got it. And just a quick follow-up for you, Luca. I think overall, just wanted to understand the implication of the investment plans that you announced recently for the U.S., the $430 billion over a multiyear period, getting some questions from investors of how to think about the implication on the run rate of operating expenses for the

Maestri: If you remember, we announced back in 2018 that we were making a very sizable commitment to the United States. We -- at the time we announced $350 billion of investment over the following five years. And during these three years, since then, we've overachieved on those commitments, and we felt it was the right time to update these type of investments. And they span from, obviously, the investment that we made directly at Apple. For example, we talked about the creation of 20,000 new jobs at Apple over the next five years in the United States. And of course, our business has grown. And so our commitment, for example, to U.S. suppliers grows over time, and that shows in the higher numbers. In the meantime, we've got into new businesses, for example, Apple TV+, a lot of the content that we developed for our TV service is produced here in the United States. And so that's additional investment here in the United States. From an OpEx standpoint, I think as you've seen this year, we're getting a lot of leverage. This is one of those years we said many times, sometimes our OpEx grows faster than revenue, and there are some other cycles where the opposite happens. We are growing revenue this year much faster than our OpEx increase. But we want to continue to make all the necessary investments into the business. We will never under invest in our business. And so you will continue to see the fact that we -- we will continue to grow our operating expenses, particularly on the

Cook: Thanks, Tejas. Good afternoon, everyone. Today, Apple is reporting a very strong quarter with double digit revenue growth across our product and services categories, and in every geographic segment. We set a new June quarter revenue record of $81.4 billion, up 36% from last year, and the vast majority of markets we tracked grew double digits, with especially strong growth in emerging markets including India, Latin America, and Vietnam. Total retail sales also set a June quarter record, and almost all of our retail stores have now opened their doors. This quarter saw a growing sense of optimism from consumers in the United States and around the world, driving renewed hope for a better future and for all that innovation can make possible. But as the last 18-months had demonstrated many times before, progress made is not progress guaranteed. An uneven recovery to the pandemic and a Delta variant surging in many countries around the world have shown us once again, that the road to recovery will be a winding one. In the midst of that enduring adversity, we are especially humbled that our technology has continued to play a key role in keeping our customers connected. Just last month, it was great to be back with our teams and customers for the opening of our newest retail store in Los Angeles, our Apple Tower Theater. It was a hopeful reminder of the energy and sense of community, shared spaces bring and how appreciative we all are now of the simple privilege of talking to one another face to face. As we look forward to more in-person interactions in the future, we're doubling down on innovation, and doing all we can to help chart a course to a healthier and more equitable world. I'll have more to say about our work in those areas a bit later on. But first, let's turn to our product and services categories. For iPhone, this quarter saw very strong double digit growth in each geographic segment, and we continue to be heartened by our customer's response to the iPhone 12 lineup. We're only in the early innings of 5G, but already its incredible performance and speed have made a significant impact on how people can get the most out of our technology. Customers love iPhone 12 for its superfast 5G speeds, A14 Bionic chip and Adobe vision camera never seen before in a phone. Users continue to rely on iPad and Mac to work, learn, create and connect. iPad had its highest June quarter in nearly a decade, while Mac set an all-time June quarter record. We've seen a great response to the new iMac and iPad Pro, both powered by the M1 chips exceptional speed and power efficient performance. The iMac’s remarkable thin design and vibrant colors have made it a favorite for users everywhere. And the iPad continues to be an incredibly versatile tool in our user's toolbox, inspiring creativity and connection and keeping us entertained and productive in equal measure. It was another very strong quarter for wearables, home and accessories, which set a new June quarter record, while helping people find more ways to stay entertained, healthy and connected at home and on the go. Apple Watch remains a go to choice for users to stay on top of their health and reach their fitness goals. And our newest accessory AirTag began shipping to an enthusiastic response from customers, making the find my network more useful than ever, while protecting user privacy. Turning to services, which set a new all-time revenue record as we continue to roll out innovative new features and programming. We're proud to be the recipients of 35 Emmy Nominations this year, which speaks to the quality of our programming, and an enthusiastic reception from customers and critics alike. Apple TV+ users are loving series like Mythic Quest, and anticipating groundbreaking films like Coda, which premieres next month. And of course, Ted Lasso kicked off season two just last week, and continues to win over viewers with its heartwarming message about the power of community, compassion and hope. We also introduced Apple Podcast subscriptions, a global marketplace for users to discover exclusive content and support their favorite creators. And we launched spatial audio for Apple Music, a cinematic listening experience that promises to change how music fans listen, and musicians create even more immersive, layered, and beautiful songs. Last month, we shared many exciting new features at WWDC. But more powerful than any of them was the incredible showing of developers from all walks of life and around the world. The new tools we announced will help developers harness cutting edge technologies, like augmented reality, reach new users and customize their experience on the App Store, or learn to update or invent an app with Swift, Apple's powerful and intuitive programming language. Today's investments in education and coding translate to tomorrow's small businesses and groundbreaking new apps. The next act of an app economy, already creating jobs and opportunity around the world. In June, a new study by the analysis group found that it was another record year for App Store developers, whose combined billings and sales increased by 24% to $643 billion in 2020. The app economy continues to be an incredible engine of prosperity and opportunity, fueled by the ceaseless striving for developers to make apps that enrich people's lives. Much like the developer community, we are diehard optimist, about technology's potential to help people live happier, healthier and more fulfilled lives, goals that shine through with powerful new updates coming to iOS, iPad OS, Mac OS, and Watch OS this fall. That begins with innovative new features that help users stay connected with one another, like share play and spatial audio for FaceTime, or disconnect when they need a break like focus, which limits distracting notifications when you're winding down for bed or concentrating at work. And new productivity features make iPad an even more useful tool for multitasking, helping users navigate across apps, split their screen or use quick note to capture a thought the moment inspiration strikes. In the health space, our new health sharing feature will make it easier than ever to securely share your health data to share your health data with loved ones. That includes new capabilities like walking steadiness, which uses sensors to assess user stability doing everyday tasks, and recommends exercises to improve stability and avoid a fall. In the belief that privacy is a fundamental human right, we share new features in iOS 15 that continue to drive our progress forward, from mail privacy protection, which stops invisible pixels and an email from tracking your mail activity to App Privacy Report, which helps users check on the apps they've granted permission to use their personal data. We also introduced some incredible next generation technologies coming to the accessibility space. From assistive touch, which helps people with limb differences navigate Apple Watch to new voiceover capabilities to help blind and low vision users, accessibility remains a bedrock principle for us, in the simple belief that the best technology for the world should be the best technology for everyone. But the responsibility to be a force for good in the lives of others extends beyond the technology we made, so the teachers and students shaping our future. This quarter as part of our racial equity and justice initiative, we awarded innovation grants to engineering schools at four historically black colleges and universities to expand their coursework, scholarships and internship opportunities in hardware engineering and silicon chip design. We see education as a great equalizing force, and we're more dedicated than ever to supporting the educators, advocates and students lining the path and leading the way. That includes the 350 swift student challenge winners, we recognized at this year's WWDC. If you ever need a dose of hope or inspiration, I can't say enough about our students' scholarship winners, whose apps bring so much good into the world, from teaching other young people to code to helping volunteers deliver groceries to people at high risk of COVID-19. Young people's innovations remind us that our collective future is bound up in the next generations' passion for solving global challenges, and of the responsibility we have to join them in building a better world. Turning to our own backyard, we're continuing to press forward in our efforts to help bring more affordable housing to the Bay Area and across California. This month, we shared that we've contributed more than $1 billion to help first time homeowners and construct 1000s of new affordable housing units across the state. And we're continuing to stay focused on supporting the global response to the pandemic and delivering the best products and services for people. Our greatest source of inspiration is a technology itself, but how people use it in their own lives, in ways great and small, to write a novel or to read one, to care for an ailing patient or see a doctor virtually, to track their heart rate on a jog or to train for the Olympics. Every day, I'm grateful for the dedication of our teams to the simple mission of creating technology that improves people's lives. And I want to thank everyone at Apple for the purpose and passion they bring to that mission. With that, I'll hand it over to

Maestri: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. We're very pleased to report record June quarter financial results, which reflect the importance of our products and services in our customers lives and our strong underlying operating performance. Our revenue reached a June quarter record of $81.4 billion, an increase of nearly $22 billion or 36% from a year ago. We grew double digits in each of our product categories, with an all-time record for services, and June quarter records for iPhone, Mac, and Wearables, Home and Accessories. We also set new June quarter records in every geographic segment with very strong double digit growth in each one of them. Products revenue was a June quarter record of $63.9 billion, up 37% over a year ago. This level of sales performance, combined with the unmatched loyalty of our customers drove our installed base of active devices to a new all-time record. Our services set an all-time revenue record of $17.5 billion up 33% over a year ago, with June quarter records in each geographic segment. Company gross margin was 43.3%, up 80 basis points from last quarter driven by cost savings and a higher mix of services, partially offset by seasonal loss of leverage. Products gross margin was 36% down 10 basis points sequentially, a seasonal loss of leverage was almost entirely offset by cost savings. Services gross margin was 69.8% down 30 basis points sequentially, mainly due to a different mix. Net income of $21.7 billion, diluted earnings per share of $1.30, and operating cash flow of $21.1 billion were all June quarter records by a wide margin. Let me get into more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue set a June quarter record of $39.6 billion growing 50% year-over-year and exceeding our own expectations, as the iPhone 12 family continued to be in very high demand. Performance was consistently strong across the world, and we grew very strong double digits in each geographic segment, setting June quarter records in most markets we track. Our active installed base of iPhones reached a new all-time high, thanks to the exceptional loyalty of our customer base and the strength of our ecosystem. In the U.S., the latest survey of consumers from 451 research indicates iPhone customer satisfaction of 97% for the iPhone 12 family. Turning to services, as I mentioned, we reach an all-time revenue record of $17.5 billion with all-time records for cloud services, music, video, advertising and payment services, and June quarter records for the App Store and Apple Care. Our newest service offerings Apple TV+, Apple Arcade, Apple News+, Apple card, Apple Fitness+ as well as the Apple One bundle, continue to scale across users, content and features and are contributing to overall services growth. The key drivers for our services business all continue to move in the right direction. First, our installed base of devices reached an all-time high across each geographic segment. Second, the number of both transacting and paid accounts on our digital content stores reached a new all-time high during the June quarter in each geographic segment, and paid accounts increased double digits. Third, paid subscriptions continue to show strong growth. We now have more than 700 million paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, which is up more than 150 million from last year, and nearly four times the number of paid subscriptions we had only four years ago. And finally, we're adding new services that we think our customers will love, while also continuing to improve the breadth and quality of our current services offerings. For example, during WWDC in June, we previewed our new iCloud+, and Apple Wallet features, which we believe will create a more secure and differentiated customer experience. Wearables, home and accessories grew 36% year-over-year to $8.8 billion, setting new June quarter revenue records in every geographic segment. We continue to improve and expand our product offerings in this category. This quarter, we began shipping our new Apple TV 4K with a redesign Siri remote and our brand new air tags, and the customer response to both products has been very strong. In addition to its outstanding sales performance globally, Apple Watch continues to extend its reach, with nearly 75% of the customers purchasing Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product. For Mac, despite supply constraints, we set a June quarter record of $8.2 billion up 16% over last year, with June quarter revenue records in most markets we track around the world. It is remarkable that the last four quarters for Mac have been its best four quarters ever. This exceptional level of sales success has been driven by the very enthusiastic customer response to our new Macs, powered by the M1 chip, which we most recently brought to our newly redesigned iMac. iPad performance was also strong with revenue of $7.4 billion up 12% in spite of significant supply constraints. During the quarter we also started shipping our new iPad Pro powered by the M1 chip and customer response has been outstanding. Both iPad and Mac have taken computing to the next level, and when you combine their performance over the last 12-months, they're now the size of a Fortune-50 business, thanks to the best product lineups we've ever had, very high levels of customer satisfaction and a loyal growing installed base. In fact, around half of the customers purchasing Mac and iPad during the quarter were new to that product. And in most recent surveys of U.S. consumers from 451 research customer satisfaction was 92% for Mac and 95% for iPad. In enterprise, our customers are excited about the superior performance, battery life and security that the new M1 Macs bring. MassMutual for example, is offering M1 MacBook Pro to all of its employees and equipping all conference rooms with M1 Mac minis in preparation for return to work. And with its incredible performance and affordable entry price, the MacBook Air with M1 is gaining rapid adoption among many leading enterprise organizations. Italgas, Italy's largest natural gas company, which will soon be using its extensive network to distribute renewable gases is replacing every employee's Windows laptop with the new MacBook Air powered by Apple's M1 chip to bring the latest technology to its workforce. And Grab, Southeast Asia's leading super app that provides transportation, food delivery and digital payment services is adding M1 MacBook Air to its company-wide M1 Mac deployment. Let me now turn to our cash position, we ended the quarter with $194 billion in cash plus marketable securities. We retired $3 billion of term debt and increased commercial paper by $3 billion, leaving us with total debt of $122 billion. As a result, net cash was $72 billion at the end of the quarter. As our business continued to perform at a very high level, we were also able to return $29 billion to shareholders during the June quarter. This included $3.8 billion in dividends and equivalence, and $17.5 billion through open market repurchases of 136 million Apple shares. We also began a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program in May, resulting in the initial delivery and retirement of 32 million shares. As we move ahead into the September quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Tejas referred to at the beginning of the call. Given the continued uncertainty around the world in the near-term, we're not providing revenue guidance. But we are sharing some directional insights, assuming that the COVID-related impacts to our business do not worsen from what we're projecting today for the current quarter. We expect very strong double digit year-over-year revenue growth during the September quarter. We expect revenue growth to be lower than our June quarter year-over-year growth of 36% for three reasons. First, we expect the foreign exchange impact on our year-over-year growth rate to be three points less favorable than it was during the June quarter. Second, we expect our services growth rate to return to a more typical level. The growth rate during the June quarter benefited from a favorable compare, as certain services were significantly impacted by the COVID lockdowns a year ago. And third, we expect supply constraints during the September quarter to be greater than what we experienced during the June quarter. The constraints will primarily impact iPhone and iPad. We expect gross margin to be between 41.5% and 42.5%. We expect our OpEx to be between $11.3 billion and $11.5 billion. We expect OI&E to be around zero, excluding any potential impact from the mark to market of minority investments and our tax rate to be around 16%. Finally, today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividends with $0.22 per share of common stock payable on August 12, 2021, to shareholders of record as of

Caso: Thank you. Good morning. Just dig into the commentary on guidance a little bit. Just starting with the fact that last year, obviously there was a later launch of iPhone than what was typically seen in other years. Could you talk us through that, and perhaps some of the other products, what may be different as compared to last year?

Caso: Thank you. If I could follow-up with regard to the supply constraints, and do you expect those supply constraints to persist through the December quarter as well? What effect will that have on the holiday selling season? And then, in conjunction with that, what additional costs are you absorbing because of the supply constraints? Is that having an effect on gross margins or just product costs in general, as you perhaps pay a little more to get more supply?

Cook: Chris, it's Tim. In terms of the cost, we're paying more for freight than I would like to pay. But component costs continue in the aggregate to decline. In terms of supply constraints, and how long they will last, I don't want to predict that today. We're going to take it sort of one quarter at a time. And as you would guess we'll do everything we can to mitigate whatever set of circumstances were dealt.

Maestri: And Chris, on the cost side, as I mentioned during my comments, our results for gross margins for the June quarter 43.3%, we really saw some really nice cost savings during the quarter. And I think you've seen that we provided guidance for 41.5% to 42.5% for

Suva: Thank you very much, and congratulations to you and your global team for great operations during a challenging time. Tim and Luca, I just have one question and either of you or both of you could figure out who's best to answer it. But we look at a world of pretty unprecedented whether it be COVID, the Delta variant, China floods, supply chain, components. Just wondering for your, like R&D and innovation, is it being materially impacted by that such where a normal cadence is unfair? Or, is it kind of happening during a slow time of year where you're able to empower people to work remotely, and still have the typical innovations and product launches that you've had historically in the past?

Cook: Jim, the company has been incredibly resilient. The employees are really doing double duty. And I could not be more pleased with the cadence that we're coming out with new things. As you can see from the software announcements that we made at WWDC, and the corresponding launches of the software that we plan on in the fall, and then all of the products that we've been able to bring out over the last 12 to 18-months, it's amazing.

Maestri: Well, I think, you can go back several quarters and try to do a bit of an average and that's what we were talking about. Of course, there's always a bit of variability around results, right. But certainly, we haven't done 33% in years and so that was a bit of an anomaly. And again, I explained it's around a couple of the businesses that had a relatively easy compare during the June quarter. So our services growth has been for many, many quarters in strong double digits and we feel confident around that level.

Sankar: Got it. And then just a follow-up for Tim or Luca. I think, Tim, you mentioned in your prepared comments that in September quarter, there's going to be greater impact on supply constraints on the iPhone and iPad. So I'm kind of curious, this is the first time I heard you talk about component shortages impacting the iPhone. Can you be more specific? Is it display drivers? Or, what exactly is the choke point on the supply?

Cook: The majority of constraints we're seeing are of the variety that I think others are saying that are I would classify as industry shortage. We do have some shortages, in addition to that, that are where the demand has been so great and so beyond our own expectation that it's difficult to get the entire set of parts within the lead times that we try to get those. So it's a little bit of that as well. As I said before, I think probably maybe with the basis of your question, sort of the latest nodes, which we use in several of our products have not been as much of an issue. The legacy nodes are where the supply constraints have been on the silicon.

Vogt: Great. Thank you guys for the question. So maybe just a point of clarification. So based on the data and the comments about upgraders and switchers being strong, as well as emerging markets were relatively strong in the quarter. What does that specific set of data points strength mean for the iPhone portfolio? And I guess my question around that is, when you think about switchers and price points, I think last year, you launched the SE2 to really address maybe some of the lower price point markets like the emerging markets. So does that mean thinking about the portfolio going forward, there's less of a need for a lower priced product going forward, and the current portfolio and the new cycle going forward would be more high-end in nature, as we currently have today?

Mohan: Yes, thank you, I have two as well. To begin with Luca, you noted significant product revenue deleverage but yet your product gross margins were roughly flat, you know that cost savings. Can you maybe talk about whether these are tactical in nature, or more structural like vertical integration that will continue to drive benefits to product gross margins? And on services side, you noted several times about the strength in ad growth, which is obviously very high margin contributor, but the sequential trajectory on services margins was flat. So what were some of the offsets there? And I’ve a follow-up for

Maestri: Yeah. On the product side, I talked about cost savings. Tim mentioned that, maybe on the freight side, we're seeing some level of cost pressure that is a bit out of the norm, at this point in the cycle. For everything else, for all the major commodities and components, we continue to see a very typical cycle where we are getting good cost savings on a sequential basis. And so far, it's been very good as you can tell from the absolute level of gross margins, because on the product side, we're up more than 600 basis points on a year-over-year basis. So it feels something that we've been able to accomplish, and we were able to maintain, at least in the near-term, nothing that was abnormal during the quarter or a one-off in nature. It was pretty structural. On the services side, again, up a lot on a year-over-year basis. So, the baseline has gone up a lot. The sequential decline, as you said, it was very, very small. And as I mentioned several times in the past, we have a very large services portfolio with very different margin profiles in our services. And so even a slight change in mix can drive some sequential differences, and this was the case this quarter, just a different mix. I mentioned for example, that Apple Care has rebounded. And so the relative success of our services in the marketplace can drive some slight changes in gross margins. Again, step back for a second, 69.8% gross margin we're very, very happy with where we are with the services margin trajectory.

Mohan: Okay. Thanks, Luca. And Tim, there is increasing regulatory focus in China in particular on some of the Chinese companies. It's not a direct impact of Apple, but how should investors handicap the indirect impact, given some of these companies are pretty large contributors to Apple's App Store revenues? And also, is there -- are you seeing any impact at all from these? And is the limiting of the usage of some of these apps influencing how people are either interacting with your devices, or is there any other ancillary impact that you're seeing?

Cook: For the quarter, as you can see we grew 58% so it was a strong quarter. And embedded in that was a quarterly record for services, which includes the App Store world. So, we're seeing strength in China. The economy has really bounced back there fairly quickly from COVID. In terms of the regulatory focus, what we are focusing on from our angle is to serve users there and make sure that they're very satisfied with the products and services that we’re showing. And we work with a lot of different companies to ensure that.

Cook: Thanks, Tejas, and good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining the call today. A year ago, I spoke to you about the atmosphere of uncertainty in which we were living and the way it had come to define our daily experience, both as people and as a company. Today, much has changed, profoundly so. And while we are still living through unprecedented times, we are encouraged by progress around the world. I’m grateful to our teams who have stayed resolutely focused on our customers and the pursuit of innovation on their behalf. We’ve aimed to help our customers navigate the world as it is while empowering them to create the world as it can be. Whether it’s public health workers managing vaccination campaigns on iPhone or students returning to classrooms full of iPads or family staying connected over FaceTime, it is an honor to know that what we make matters and to see that reflected in the world and in our performance. This fiscal year, we reported $366 billion of revenue, which represents 33% annual growth. We also achieved more than 20% growth across all of our product categories and in every geographic segment. And today, Apple is reporting another very strong quarter. Demand was very robust, and we set a new September quarter record of $83.4 billion, up 29% from last year and in line with what we discussed on our last call, despite larger-than-expected supply constraints. We estimate these constraints had around a $6 billion revenue dollar impact, driven primarily by industry-wide silicon shortages and COVID-related manufacturing disruptions. Even so, we set an all-time record for Mac and quarterly records for iPhone, iPad, Wearables, Home and Accessories, representing 30% year-over-year growth in products. Our services business performed better than we expected, where we hit an all-time record of $18.3 billion and grew 26% year-over-year. And we set quarterly records in every geographic segment with strong double-digit growth across the board. During fiscal 2021, we earned nearly one-third of our revenue from emerging markets and doubled our business in India and Vietnam. We are optimistic about the future, especially as we see strong demand for our new products. At the end of the September quarter, we introduced our iPhone 13 lineup as well as the Apple Watch Series 7, iPad and iPad mini, all of which represents significant advances. The iPhone 13 and iPhone 13 mini, alongside the iPhone 13 Pro and Pro Max, are setting a new standard with their superfast performance, advanced camera systems, longer battery life and brilliant Super Retina displays. Customers are loving the ninth generation iPad, which features a beautifully sharp display and twice the storage of the previous generation, as well as the new iPad mini, with its ultra portable design and impressive speed and performance. And we’ve been thrilled with the reviews that Apple Watch Series 7 has earned for its larger display, faster charging and refined design. And just last week, we introduced the completely reimagined MacBook Pro powered by the extraordinary M1 PRO and M1 Max chips. These are our most powerful notebooks ever with game-changing performance and battery life, and the world’s best notebook display. We think customers are going to love MacBook Pro, whether they’re editing video in Final Cut Pro or making music in Logic Pro and so much more. They’ll be able to do things never before possible on a notebook. We also announced our all-new AirPods that feature spatial audio and industry-leading sound, longer battery life and an all-new design. For the home, we added three new colors to our HomePod mini lineup, which offers seamless integration across Apple’s products and services. We also announced a new subscription tier to Apple Music called Apple Music Voice, which offers subscribers access to the services catalog of 90 million songs all through the power of Siri. Across the board, teams at Apple continue to drive unmatched innovation through the seamlessly integrated hardware, software experience we’ve long prided ourselves on. iOS 15 and iPadOS 15 have created more ways than ever to stay productive, whether choosing Focus to avoid distractions or Quick Note to capture a thought. macOS Monterey offers new ways to connect with friends and family, get more done and work fluidly across Apple devices. And watchOS 8 has made Apple Watch even more powerful and more ways than ever to stay active and to track your health on the go. We’ve never had a more diverse range of services for our customers to choose from, and we’ve been very encouraged by our performance, which reflects growing customer enthusiasm and satisfaction. In just its first two years, Apple TV+ has already proved itself to fans around the world. And I want to congratulate the incredible actors, writers, storytellers, producers and everyone else whose behind-the-scenes work has made that success possible. This quarter, Apple TV+ won 11 Emmys, including the Award for Outstanding Comedy Series for Ted Lasso. That show has continued to bring light and laughter to fans all over the world with its boundless optimism and beloved cast of characters. We couldn’t be more proud of our entire lineup of content from the gripping second seasons of The Morning Show and Truth Be Told to our newest programs, Swagger, which is out tomorrow. The response has been incredible. This quarter also saw major updates to Fitness+, including the addition of new activities like meditation and pilates, and the announcement of group workouts, a feature that brings fitness and friends together. We also shared that Fitness+ will soon be available in 15 new countries, bringing workouts for every age and skill level to millions more people around the world. And those are just two of the services our customers are loving. This quarter, Apple Card won a J.D. Power award for customer satisfaction in its very first year of eligibility. The App Store continues to help people find the apps they depend on to stay productive, creative and entertained. And on Apple News, we launched a News Partner Program that expands Apple’s support for journalism while creating an even better business opportunity for publishers. As we continue to support our customers around the world, we’re glad to report we’ve opened several new Apple Stores. This quarter, we opened a beautiful store in Changsha, which is our first store in the Hunan province of China. We also just opened our third store in Istanbul. And we recently added a store in the Bronx, which means we are now in all 5 boroughs of New York City. All of our stores are now open worldwide and have been for 7 weeks. As we enter our busiest time of year, I particularly want to share my gratitude for our retail teams. Customers have never relied on our products more, and our retail teams have truly answered the call. We meet our customers where they are with many ways to shop through our online and retail stores and can help them choose the best product for them and get it up and running. We are also excited about our education initiatives. This month, we introduced the Everyone Can Code Early Learners program, offering free resources, which helps students and elementary school learn coding. We see education not only as a fundamental good in its own right but is a great equalizing force. A world where all people can access a quality education isn’t just a smarter world. It’s a more equitable one. That desire to create a more just an equitable world is the guiding principle behind our Racial Equity and Justice Initiative. This quarter, Apple shared plans to expand our $100 million investment by an additional $30 million. Those funds will be used in a number of ways, including the creation of a new global Hispanic-serving institution equity and innovation hub. The hub will dramatically expand the technology and resources for students in the STEM fields. Those programs join our ever-expanding work with historically black colleges and universities, including the now 45 community coding centers and regional hubs, serving underrepresented communities across the United States. This month, we were also happy to welcome the inaugural class of developers and entrepreneurs to the Apple Developer Academy in Detroit. The academy is Apple’s first in the United States and is designed to help prepare students for jobs in the thriving iOS app economy, which supports more than 2.1 million jobs across all 50 states. In August, we shared our impact accelerators first cohort of black, Latinx and indigenous-owned businesses whose pioneering work in green technology and clean energy serves many of the communities most impacted by climate change. More broadly, we are already carbon-neutral as a company. And this quarter, we made new strides towards reaching our goal of carbon neutrality across our entire supply chain and the life cycle of our devices by 2030. We’ve made significant product advances in this area. iPad and iPad mini now come with 100% recycled aluminum enclosure. The antenna on iPhone 13 is made up of upcycled plastic water bottles, which marks an industry-first. And as our customers are seeing when they purchase iPhone 13, we’ve redesigned the packaging to eliminate that outer plastic wrap, which will allow us to avoid using 600 metric tons of plastic. This brings us closer to removing all plastic in our packaging by 2025. We’ve also made good progress toward our goal to one day make our products without taking anything from the earth. With Apple Watch Series 7, for example, 99% of the rare earth elements we use are recycled. Ahead of COP26, I’m also pleased to report that we have more than doubled the number of our suppliers who have committed to becoming carbon neutral by 2030. We’re very encouraged to see the growth in this area, and we will continue to drive those changes in the supply chain in the months and years to come. We’ve never viewed our environmental work as a side project. Teams across Apple are pushing this work forward in the same spirit of innovation we bring to our products and services. We are determined to be a ripple in the pond that drives a far greater change. From the pandemic to climate change to an equity and injustice, global challenges won’t abide solitary solutions, and we feel a deep sense of responsibility to help. We are incredibly proud of the product lineup we have going into the holiday season, and we are encouraged by the customer response we’ve seen. And while we cannot know exactly which path the pandemic will take the world down in the months to come, we feel quite confident that this new year will be driven by the values that guide us and by the innovation that defines us. With that, I’ll hand it over to Luca for a deeper dive on our performance this quarter. Luca?

Maestri: Thank you, Tim. Good afternoon, everyone. We are pleased to report very strong financial results for the September quarter, capping a record-setting fiscal year 2021. We set a September quarter revenue record of $83.4 billion, an increase of nearly $19 billion or 29% from a year ago, despite larger-than-expected supply constraints. We also reached new Q4 records in every geographic segment with strong double-digit growth in each one of them. And it was a record September quarter for both, products and services. On the product side, revenue was $65.1 billion, up 30% over a year ago as we experienced better-than-expected demand for our products, despite supply constraints that we estimated at around $6 billion. We grew in each of our product categories with an all-time record for Mac and September quarter records for iPhone, for iPad and for Wearables, Home and Accessories. This level of sales performance, combined with the unmatched loyalty of our customers and the strength of our ecosystem, drove our installed base of active devices to a new all-time record. Our services set an all-time revenue record of $18.3 billion, up 26% over a year ago, with September quarter records in every geographic segment and in every services category. Company gross margin was 42.2%, down 110 basis points from last quarter, due to higher costs and a different mix of products, partially offset by leverage. Products gross margin was 34.3%, down 170 basis points sequentially as higher cost structures were partially offset by leverage and mix. Services gross margin was 70.5%, up 70 basis points sequentially, mainly due to a different mix. Net income of $20.6 billion and diluted earnings per share of $1.24, both grew over 60% year-over-year and were September quarter records. Let me get into more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue grew 47% year-over-year and set a September quarter record of $38.9 billion, despite supply constraints as customer demand was very strong. The iPhone 12 family continued to perform very well, and we are seeing enthusiastic customer response to the launch of our iPhone 13 family. We also grew double digits in each geographic segment, setting September quarter records in both, developed and emerging markets. The latest survey of U.S. consumers from 451 Research indicates iPhone customer satisfaction of 98% for iPhone, and our active installed base of iPhones reached a new all-time high. For Mac, we set an all-time revenue record of $9.2 billion, despite supply constraints, driven by strong demand for our M1-powered MacBook Air. In fact, our last five quarters for Mac have been the best five quarters ever for the category. iPad performance was also strong with a September quarter revenue record of $8.3 billion, up 21%, in spite of significant supply constraints as customer demand for the iPad Pro also powered by M1 was very strong. For both, Mac and iPad, we continue to see a combination of high levels of customer satisfaction and first-time buyers. Around half of the customers purchasing Mac and iPad during the quarter were new to that product. And in the most recent surveys of U.S. consumers from 451 Research, customer satisfaction was 97% for both, Mac and iPad. Our continued investment in iPad and Mac is taking computing to the next level. We have redesigned and reengineered both products to provide customers an unmatched experience, which resulted in record fiscal years for both categories. We are carrying this momentum also in the enterprise market. For example, SAP has already deployed Macs to tens of thousands of their employees to date. Following the launch of our new M1 MacBook Pro last week, SAP is planning to add it to the growing list of M1 Mac offerings available to their global workforce. Another example is France’s national railway company, SNCF, which equips all train drivers with iPads to manage their entire daily workflow and train operations, helping to lower energy and maintenance costs. In fact, the iPads have been so well received that 90% of the drivers choose to purchase them for personal use at the end of the corporate device refresh cycle. Next, Wearables, Home and Accessories set a new September quarter record of $8.8 billion. We continue to improve and expand our product offerings in this category, which we believe improve the overall customer experience and showcase the integration between our products and services. Apple Watch, AirPods and HomePod mini are powerful devices in their own right, but paired with our other products, software and services, they create unique experiences, like switching audio seamlessly between devices on your AirPods. Turning to services. As I mentioned, we reached an all-time revenue record of $18.3 billion with all-time records for cloud services, music, video, advertising, AppleCare and payment services and a September quarter record for the App Store. Our continued investment and strong execution in services has helped us deliver a record $68 billion in revenue during fiscal 2021, nearly tripling this category in six years. These impressive results reflect the positive momentum we are seeing on many fronts. First, our installed base continues to grow and reached an all-time high across each geographic segment. Next, we continue to see increased customer engagement with our services. The number of paid accounts on our digital content stores grew double digits and reached a new all-time high during the September quarter in each geographic segment. Also, paid subscriptions continued to show very strong growth. We now have more than 745 million paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, which is up more than 160 million from last year and nearly 5 times the number of paid subscriptions we had less than five years ago. And finally, as Tim mentioned earlier, we’re adding new services that we think our customers will love. And we continue to improve the breadth and quality of our current services offerings. Fiscal ‘21 was not only a big year for services but for our entire company. During the past 12 months, we grew our business by 33% or $91 billion, reaching nearly $366 billion of revenue with record level performance across the board. Every product category and every geographic segment set a new annual revenue record and was up at least 20% over fiscal 2020. Let me now turn to our cash position. We ended the quarter with $191 billion in cash plus marketable securities. We issued $6.5 billion of new term debt, retired $1.3 billion of term debt and decreased commercial paper by $2 billion, leaving us with total debt of $125 billion. As a result, net cash was $66 billion at the end of the quarter as we continue to make progress towards our goal of net cash neutral over time. As our business continues to generate very strong cash flow, we were also able to return $24 billion to shareholders during the September quarter. This included $3.6 billion in dividends and equivalents and $20 billion through open market repurchases of 137 million Apple shares. We also retired an additional 5 million shares in the final settlement of our 17th ASR. As we move ahead into the December quarter, I’d like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Tejas referred to at the beginning of the call. Given the continued uncertainty around the world in the near term, we are not providing revenue guidance but we are sharing some directional insights based on the assumption that the COVID-related impacts to our business do not worsen from what we are projecting today for the current quarter. As we mentioned earlier, during the September quarter, supply constraints impacted our revenue by around $6 billion. We estimate the impact from supply constraints will be larger during the December quarter. Despite this challenge, we are seeing high demands for our products and expect to achieve very solid year-over-year revenue growth and to set a new revenue record during the December quarter. We expect revenue for each product category to grow on a year-over-year basis, except for iPad, which we expect to decline year-over-year due to supply constraints. For services, we expect our growth rate to decelerate from the September quarter but to remain strong. We expect gross margin to be between 41.5% and 42.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $12.4 billion and $12.6 billion. We expect OI&E to be around negative $50 million, excluding any potential impact from the mark-to-market of minority investments and our tax rate to be around 16%. Finally, today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.22 per share of common stock payable on November 11, 2021, to shareholders of record as of November 8, 2021. With that, let’s open the call to questions.

Gala: Thank you, Luca. We ask that you limit yourself to two questions. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Cross: Thank you very much. Tim, I’m wondering, can you talk a bit more about specific supply chain issues you saw and how you’ve seen improvements I think during the current quarter, and how we should think about what products do you expect to see most impacted going forward? Just any more color you can give us on what’s going on out there because clearly, this is hitting everyone.

Cook: Sure. If you look at Q4 for a moment, we had about $6 billion in supply constraints, and it affected the iPhone, the iPad and the Mac. We had -- there were two causes of them for Q4. One was the chip shortages that you’ve heard a lot about from many different companies through the industry. And the second was COVID-related manufacturing disruptions in Southeast Asia. The second of those, the COVID disruptions, have improved materially across October to where we currently are. And so, for this quarter, we think that the primary cause of supply-chain-related shortages will be the chip shortage. It will affect -- it is affecting, I should say, pretty much most of our products currently and -- but from a demand point of view, demand is very robust. And so, part of this is the demand also is very strong. But we believe that by the time we finish the quarter that the constraints will be larger than the $6 billion that we experienced in

Cross: Okay, great. So, you’ll sort of push forward in the next quarter as well. Can you -- just a different question because I’m curious, you’re starting to sell more and more things on a ratable basis. And how are you thinking about that? I mean, you have the new Macs and that we keep seeing. You can buy for a monthly charge in that. How do you think that’s driving sales? And how should we think about percent maybe of the portfolio that’s now available? And I don’t know if you want to tell us how much revenue is now under a recurring nature, but it definitely seems as you’re shifting more and more to maybe sort of a bundled sale or offering from a consumer standpoint where you just pay one price every month and you get all of your

Cook: Yes. The first product, Shannon, that really sold on a monthly basis was iPhone. And that began to happen in the U.S., as an example, shortly after the subsidy kind of world changed markedly. And so, I would say that predominantly, the mode of buying an iPhone in the United States is on a monthly kind of plan today. For the balance of the products, still the most popular would be buying them outright. But, we are seeing more and more demand for monthly payments. And so, we want to give the customer what they want. And so, you will see us do more and more things like that that will meet the customer where -- and provide the price that they want -- in a way that they want to pay for it. I don’t know the percentage of products that are sold that way today, but it is increasing.

Daryanani: Perfect. Thanks a lot, and good afternoon, everyone. I have two as well. I guess, when I think about the supply chain headwinds, and you’re talking about $6 billion in September, getting bigger in December. Tim, I would love to understand how do you guys comfort that this is really a demand that’s getting deferred versus potentially getting destroyed at least somewhere else. And if you think about the supply chain bottlenecks -- you were the COO. You managed a lot of the stuff. Do you feel comfortable that sort of peaks in December and alleviates it from there, or what does the trajectory look like for improvement?

Cook: Yes. What I feel comfortable on is I feel like we’ve made great progress on the COVID-related disruptions, and that happened across the month of October, and we’re in a materially better position today. It is difficult to predict COVID. And so, I’m not going to predict where it goes. But I can just tell you that as of today, we’re in a materially better position than we were in September and in the first several weeks of October. In terms of the chip shortage, the chip shortage is happening on legacy nodes. Primarily, we buy leading edge nodes, and we’re not having issues on leading edge nodes. But on legacy nodes, we compete with many different companies for supply. And it’s difficult to forecast when those things will balance because you’d have to know how kind of -- how the economy is going to be in ‘22 and the accuracy of everyone else’s demand projections. And so, I don’t feel comfortable in making a prediction. I think, it would be subject to too much inaccuracy. But, I do feel very comfortable with our operational team. I think, we’ve got a world-class one. And I’m sure they’re doing everything they can do to collapse cycle times and improve yields and do all the things that you can do in addition to fundamental capacity investment to remedy the situation.

Daryanani: Got it. And then, Luca, if I may ask you a question on gross margins for December, you’re essentially guiding gross margins to be flat to maybe down a little bit versus sort of September. Maybe just touch about it. So, I think historically, I would have expected gross margins to be up in December, given how much revenue leverage you end up with. So maybe, what are the puts and takes on gross margins that are resulting in a more flattish guide versus historical seasonality?

Maestri: Well, as you know, typically, obviously with December being the holiday season, we do get leverage, as you say. But, it’s also the period of the year where we launch a lot of new products. And as you know, we launch essentially in every product category. We launch new products. Demand is very strong. But as you know, when we launch these new products, we tend to have higher cost structures at the beginning of the cycle. And so, that’s what balances this out. Obviously, from a year-over-year standpoint, it’s actually a significant expansion, right? Because when you look at what we did a year ago in the December quarter, 39.8%, this clearly indicates a significant expansion.

Huberty: Thank you. Given the supply chain is blurring the demand picture for iPhone 13, what data points can you share that help investors understand whether demand is tracking to a product cycle that is flat, growing or down from the very strong iPhone 12? And maybe on that front, Luca, you can also comment on where you exited the quarter from a channel inventory standpoint for iPhone relative to a normal product cycle? And then, I’ve got a follow-up.

Cook: Yes. Look, maybe I can take both of those. Channel inventory, as you would expect in a constrained environment, the iPhone channel inventory ended below the targeted range and is currently below it. And so, that’s that. In terms of the blurring of demand, we look at -- Katy, we look at a number of different data points. We look at demand across our online store, demand in retail. We look through to back orders on the carrier channels, the ones that do take back orders there. We look at channel orders as well. And so, we have a number of different data points that we use to conclude how strong demand is. And we feel very, very good about where demand is right now. And we’re working feverishly on the supply side of that.

Huberty: And Tim, as a follow-up. We recently surveyed 4,000 consumers in the U.S. and China, and the feedback is most of them don’t want to pay for apps or services direct with the developer. They value the security, privacy, ease of transactions with the App Store. So, how do you think about balancing the regulators push for more choice with a customer base that’s happy with the existing experience? And just as a follow-on to that, how are you and Luca thinking about the potential impact of services revenue growth rate as some of the changes to the App Store go into effect?

Cook: Katy, the main thing that we’re focused on, on the App Store is to keep our focus on privacy and security. And so, these are the two major tenets that have produced over the years a very trusted environment where consumers and developers come together and consumers can trust the developers on the developers and the apps or what they say they are and the developers get a huge audience to sell their software to. And so, that’s sort of number one on our list. Everything else is a distant second. And so, what we’re doing is working to explain the decisions that we’ve made that are key to keeping the privacy and security there, which is to not have sideloading and not have alternate ways on the iPhone, where it opens up the iPhone to unreviewed apps and also get by the privacy restrictions that we put on the App Store. And so, we’re very, very focused in discussing the privacy and security elements of the

Vogt: Great. Thank you, guys. And I just have two quick questions, one big picture, theoretical. So, you covered the supply chain in pretty extensive detail on the call. But maybe just a bigger picture on how you’re thinking about it philosophically given what you just sort of went through over the last 12 to 8 months. So, what I mean by that, is there sort of a recalibration needed or an adjustment around your supply chain philosophy either from a partner perspective or maybe a regional perspective? And how do you think about the current infrastructure and its ability to sort of rebound and sort of handle sort of these disruptions that seem to crop up from time to time?

Cook: Yes. I don’t see a fundamental error that we’ve made, if that’s what you’re picking out, in terms of creating the environment that we’re in. It was created for a number of reasons. The pandemic came along. Some people in the industry and some people outside the industry thought that the pandemic would reduce demand. They pulled their orders down. Things reset. And what really happened was demand went up and went up even more than a straight trend would predict. And so, the industry is working through that now. I’m making it little overly simplistic. There’s some other things like yields and things like that that are happening as well. But, those things are mainly manageable in the course of time. And so, what we’re doing is working with our partners on making sure that they have supply that we need and making sure that our demand statements are accurate as we see them and so forth. And at the same time, we are reducing our lead times and cycle times, so that when you get a chip off a fab that as quickly as possible, it’s in a product and shipping and also helping the fab partners increase their yields. And so, those things are things that we’re doing. We also support the CHIPS Act and investment there to put more investment in the ground. And so, we’re spending some time advocating for the

Vogt: Great. And that’s helpful. And I didn’t mean to implicate that you guys had messed up, just maybe came off that way. And maybe just as a quick follow-up. When you think about purchasing devices ratably, you touched on that earlier. But maybe can you just touch on the partnerships that you have with carriers and the support that they have given you over the last couple of years. Now, it’s been a key component of your success, the tight relationships that you have globally. Do you think sort of this business model, as it’s currently sort of put together globally, is sort of a permanent structure, meaning carriers are going to be integral part of driving demand for iPhones, or is there a sense that maybe it’s a little bit more transitory depending on the part of the cycle that we’re in?

Cook: I think that 5G has provided a once in a decade kind of upgrade potential, and it’s a multiyear kind of thing. It’s not a one year and done. And I think that we’re motivated there. The carrier is motivated there. We have mutual interest and the customer benefits hugely from getting a new 5G phone that has 5G and a number of other features in it, too. And so, I think everybody is aligned on purpose. The model that you paint is -- I wouldn’t call it a global model because there are different variations around the world depending upon the country. But, in general, I think that the marriage, if you will, or partnership between Apple and the carrier channel has never been stronger and that it’s on very solid footing.

Sankar: I had two of them, too. And Tim, I will give you a reprieve from the supply chain questions. I had two on services. The first one is on your new ATT, the ad tracking transparency feature, and all the headlines that have gone recently, I’m kind of curious. The feedback you’ve seen or received from your advertisers and users and how it has also impacted search ads your own ad business. Can you let us know the feedback?

Cook: The feedback from customers is overwhelmingly positive. Customers appreciate having the option of whether they want to be tracked or not. And so, there’s an outpouring of customer satisfaction there on the customer side. And the reason that we did this is that -- as you know, if you followed us for a while, we believe strongly that privacy is a basic human right and we believe that for decades, not just in the last year or so. And we’ve historically rolled out more and more features over time for -- to place the decision of whether to share data and what data to share in the hands of the user where we believe that it belongs. We don’t think that’s Apple’s role to decide, and we don’t think that’s another company’s role to decide but rather the individual who owns the data itself. And so, that’s our motivation there. There’s no other motivation.

Cook: It’s so early to talk about iPhone 13 because it’s only been on the market for less than 30 days now. What I can tell you is going into the cycle, if you look at our results from last quarter, we grew on upgraders and switchers in the double digits. And so, both were very meaningful for the iPhone results last quarter. And so, there’s significant momentum in iPhone. And I would clearly characterize the demand that we’re seeing currently as robust, as you can tell from the -- some of the quotes that we’re quoting on the online store.

Chatterjee: Okay. And as a follow-up, I guess, back to the supply chain but I wanted to just ask more relative to cost implications there. And what we’re hearing is not only delays but also component cost going up. So, as we look through -- as I think about this upcoming cycle, how are you looking to manage component cost related headwinds? And is that something you’re seeing coming through the supply chain?

Cook: We’ve put our current thoughts in the gross margin guidance that we gave you, the 41.5% to 42.5%. I would tell you that we are seeing a significant increase in freight costs. And I would assume that that is pretty consistent across different companies. And so, we’re clearly seeing some inflation there.

Suva: Thank you. And I’ll ask both my questions at the same time. Probably the first one is for Tim. On the services revenue, much better than expected. Can you give us some details about what drove that? Was it Apple Stores more open, so more AppleCare or more Apple One or Arcade or TV or Fitness? And then, probably for Luca on supply chain, when you mentioned supply chain headwind is going to get worse and you mentioned $6 billion this quarter, there’s two ways to think about your terminology of worse. Is it the delta from $2 billion that you identified three months ago that went to $6 billion, so therefore, the delta of $4 billion gets worse, or are you just saying -- and therefore, it’s above $10 billion for December quarter. Are you just saying it just gets higher than the $6 billion that you just identified earlier in the call?

Cook: Jim, I’m going to take the second question that you asked, and Luca could take the first one on services, just in the reverse of the way you coined it. On the supply constraints, what we’re saying is that the amount of -- the nominal amount of supply constraints for Q1, we estimate to be larger than $6 billion. And so, it’s important to know that we’re getting a lot more supply in Q1 than we had in Q4, obviously, because our sequential growth is significant. And we have very solid growth year-over-year. And so, the amount of supply is growing dramatically. It’s just that the demand is so robust that we envision having supply constraints for the quarter.

Kumar: Yes. Hey, guys, first of all, a great job managing to the supply constraints. It’s obviously affecting everybody. So congratulations. And then Tim, one for you, a strategic question. When Apple thinks about strategic areas that as a company that we own, for example, software is a high priority, but you’re also one of the largest semiconductor companies if the company would stand alone. So, curious about the kind of input that -- thinking that goes into owning some piece of technology. For example, when we survey people, they say batteries and screens are very important. So, why doesn’t Apple -- for example, what causes Apple from looking at areas like that?

Cook: We look at ones where we believe we can make a substantial difference and have a level of differentiation. And so, we’ve put a lot of energy in the silicon space because we have felt that we could design and develop products that we could not if we were in the -- just buying what’s available on the commercial market. And as you can see, more recently, we made that call on the Mac as well and have shifted to our own chips there. And so, it really depends on whether we see a way to do something that’s differentiated or not. And I wouldn’t want to rule anything out. It’s more of whether or not we see our way clear to doing something that is materially better. We feel like we’ve done that in the chip area.

Kumar: And then, I’ve got one for Luca. I want to go back to a question that Amit asked earlier in the call about the gross margin. So, when I look at the September quarter, services obviously grew much faster than the product business, margin was down and same thing for December. But I think you’re effectively saying that there’s a lot of new product launches. Would that not go into OpEx, for example, marketing, et cetera, as opposed to COGS, or is there something that maybe needs to be clarified here?

Cook: Well, we look at a number of things internally that we don’t share externally. And so, you can bet that we’re looking at subs and ARPUs and conversions and churn and all of the normal things you would look at with a subscription business. But, we’re not going to get into sharing those on an individual service basis. What we’re trying to do is give you visibility to the aggregate number of subscriptions that we’ve had, which Luca covered earlier with the 745 million across both Apple branded and third party. And so, we’re giving you an aggregated view of it instead of the -- at the individual service level. But, you can bet that we’re managing it at the individual service level.

Cook: Thank you, Tejas, and good afternoon. Today, we are proud to announce Apple's biggest quarter ever. Through the busy holiday season, we set an all-time revenue record of nearly $124 billion, up 11% from last year and better than we had expected at the beginning of the quarter. And we are pleased to see that our active installed base of devices is now at a new record with more than 1.8 billion devices. We set all-time records for both developed and emerging markets and saw revenue growth across all of our product categories, except for iPad, which we said would be supply constrained. As expected, in the aggregate, we experienced supply constraints that were higher than the September quarter. Before I discuss our results in greater detail, I want to first acknowledge the toll that COVID continues to have on communities around the world. In many places, case counts are higher and health systems more strained than at any point throughout the pandemic. On behalf of all of us at Apple, I want to extend our deep gratitude to the scientists, doctors, nurses and so many others on the front lines of combating COVID-19. This is our eighth quarter reporting results in the shadow of the pandemic. And while I can't say it gets any easier, I can say I'm incredibly proud of the way our teams have come together and continue to innovate on behalf of our customers. A few weeks ago, we marked the 15th anniversary of the day Steve revealed iPhone to the world. We knew that we had the beginnings of something fundamentally transformative, though none of us could have predicted the incredible and meaningful impact it would have on all of our lives. The creative spirit that made the first iPhone possible has thrived at Apple every day since. We never stop creating. We never stop innovating. You can see that spirit reflected throughout our products from the incredible performance and capability of our M1 chips to our powerful yet easy to use operating systems to our unrivaled iPhone camera systems to the beauty and magic of AirPods. That's why each of our major products leads the industry in customer satisfaction for their respective category. People expect Apple to solve hard problems with easy to use products. And iPhone has never been more popular. During the December quarter, we set an all-time revenue record for iPhone, thanks to the strength of our incredible iPhone 13 lineup. This is the best iPhone lineup we've ever had and the reaction from the press and our users have been off the charts. This past quarter, we also set another all-time revenue record for Mac with customers eager to get their hands on an M1-powered MacBook Air, iMac or MacBook Pro. We've been thrilled with the response from Pro users to the M1 Pro and M1 Max chips and to see how Apple silicon is blowing them away with its power, performance and efficiency. Despite the constraints I mentioned earlier, our iPad lineup continues to be indispensable to tens of millions of people, from teachers and students to artists and creators. Customers are eager to get their hands on our ninth generation iPad, which features a beautiful display and double the storage capacity, as well as the new iPad Mini with its ultra portable design. Wearable, Home and Accessories, meanwhile, set an all-time revenue record. Customers are loving the Apple Watch Series 7, with its cutting edge health and fitness tracking features. Nearly every day, I get notes from customers who share how a heart alert led to a life saving appointment with a cardiologist. And more recently, I've been hearing from people who tell me that their Apple Watch saved their lives by calling 911, when they couldn't. As I've said, we're still in the early innings with our health work that every day I'm encouraged by our positive impact. We are also making great advancements in audio and are seeing strong demand from customers as a result. The HomePod Mini continues to earn praise for combining the intelligence of Siri with an immersive room filling audio experience. And our customers have responded with a lot of excitement to the magic of spatial audio on AirPods which packs the acoustics of a concert hall. As always, the deep integration of hardware, software and services is a hallmark of everything Apple makes. It's a principle you can see at work in the introduction of SharePlay, a feature that offers a whole new way to create shared experiences by letting users watch and listen to their favorite content together on FaceTime. And we continue to invest in innovation across our services business, which set another all-time revenue record last quarter and performed even better than we had anticipated. The App Store continues to be an economic miracle for developers around the world and a safe and trusted place for consumers to discover their favorite apps. Since its launch, we have paid developers selling digital goods and services more than $260 billion, with 2021 setting a new record for their earnings. I'm also happy to report that in its first 2 years, Apple TV+ shows and movies have earned 200 award wins and more than 890 nominations. Among the powerful lineup are feature films like The Tragedy of Macbeth, CODA and Swan Song, along with many gripping new series coming up, including Severance and The Afterparty. Each one is a tremendous credit to all the storytellers in front of the cameras and behind them who touched audiences all over the world. Fitness+, meanwhile, continues to inspire customers to reach their health and fitness goals. We recently introduced Time to Run, an extension of our popular series Time to Walk, as well as new collections of workouts and meditations to help users make more intentional training choices. Despite the pandemic, our retail businesses saw its highest revenue in Apple's history, and we also earned our highest ever customer satisfaction scores. That is a testament to the incredible adaptability our teams have shown as we've reimagined experience. I also want to take a moment to thank our retail employees and AppleCare teams for the deep care you've given to our customers as they look to get the most out of our products, learn new skills or track down the perfect gift. We have always led with our values and with compassion and care and never has that been more needed than during the pandemic. Last quarter, we celebrated 10 years of our Employee Giving program, which we started to help our employees identify and support the causes they care most deeply about. We pledged to match their contributions to organizations doing important work at every level from their local food pantry to global humanitarian non-profits. In the last decade, this program has contributed nearly $725 million to charitable organizations. We also celebrated 15 years of Apple's partnership with a global fund on Project RED supporting their life-saving work to expand healthcare services in Sub-Saharan Africa for people living with HIV/AIDS. With the support of our customers, we've now raised nearly $270 million to fund prevention, testing and counseling services for people impacted by HIV/AIDS. And in keeping with our abiding belief in and commitment to education, we also launched a new partnership with the Boys & Girls Club of America. This initiative will help young people across the U.S. learn to code on iPad using our Everyone Can Code curriculum. And we are continuing to drive innovations to help combat climate change. We are already carbon neutral across our own operations, and we are working intensely to meet our 2030 goal of carbon neutrality across our supply chain and the life cycle of our products. To celebrate Black History Month, we will be releasing a special edition Apple Watch Black Unity Braided Solo Loop and a matching Unity Lights Watch Face. And through our racial equity and justice initiative, we are continuing to support organizations blazing trails to a more equitable world in our economies, our classrooms and our criminal justice system. We recognize, as ever, that it takes all of us to confront our most profound challenges. And at Apple, we are determined to do our part. That includes our own work and inclusion and diversity, which we are advancing every day. Let me close by saying that despite the uncertainty of the world, there is one thing of which

I am certain: Apple will continue to every day and in every way to deliver on the promise of technology at its best. I will now turn it over to

Maestri: Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone. We are very pleased to report record financial results for the December quarter. We set an all-time revenue record of $123.9 billion, an 11% increase from a year ago. We reached new all-time records in the Americas, Europe, Greater China and the rest of Asia Pacific. And it was also an all-time record quarter for both products and services. On the product side, revenue was $104.4 billion, up 9% over a year ago, despite significant supply constraints. We grew in each of our product categories, except iPad, where supply constraints were particularly pronounced, and set all-time records for iPhone, Mac and Wearables, Home and Accessories. The strong level of sales performance, the unmatched loyalty of our customers and the strength of our ecosystem have driven our current installed base of active devices to a new all-time record of 1.8 billion devices. The growth in the installed base were broad-based as we set all-time records in each major product category and in each geographic segment. Our Services set an all-time revenue record of $19.5 billion, up 24% over a year ago, with December quarter records in every geographic segment. Company gross margin was 43.8%, up 160 basis points from last quarter due to volume leverage and favorable mix, partially offset by higher cost structures. Products gross margin was 38.4%, up 410 basis points sequentially, driven by leverage and mix. Services gross margin was 72.4%, up 190 basis points sequentially, mainly due to a different mix. Net income of $34.6 billion and diluted earnings per share of $2.10 both grew more than 20% year-over-year and were all-time records. Operating cash flow of $47 billion was also an all-time record. Let me get into more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue grew 9% year-over-year to an all-time record of $71.6 billion despite supply constraints, thanks to a remarkable customer response to our new iPhone 13 family. We set all-time records in both developed and emerging markets, reached all-time high in the iPhone active installed base and the latest survey of U.S. consumers from 451 Research indicates iPhone customer satisfaction of 98%. For Mac, revenue of $10.9 billion was an all-time record with growth of 25% year-over-year driven by strong demand for our newly redesigned MacBook Pro powered by M1 despite supply constraints. We are 1 year into our transition to Apple silicon and already, the vast majority of our Mac sales are from M1-powered devices, which helped drive a record number of upgraders during the December quarter. Our momentum in this category is very impressive as the last 6 quarters have been the best 6 quarters ever for Mac. iPad generated $7.2 billion in revenue, down 14% year-over-year due to very significant supply constraints, but customer demand was very strong across all models. Despite the supply shortages, our installed base of iPads reached a new all-time high during the quarter, thanks to a high number of customers that are new to iPad. In fact, around half of the customers purchasing an iPad during the quarter were new to the product. Wearables, Home and Accessories set a new all-time record of $14.7 billion, up 13% year-over-year. And we set all-time revenue records in each geographic segment. We also continue to improve and expand our product offerings in this category to create unique experiences showcasing our deep integration of hardware, software and services. In addition to an outstanding level of sales performance globally, Apple Watch continues to extend its reach, with over 2/3 of customers purchasing an Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product. Turning to services. As I mentioned, we reached an all-time revenue record of $19.5 billion, up 24%, with all-time records for cloud services, for music, video, advertising and payment services and a December quarter record for the App Store. These impressive results reflect the positive momentum we are seeing on many fronts. First, as I mentioned before, our installed base has continued to grow and has reached an all-time high across each geographic segment and major product category. Next, we continue to see increased customer engagement with our services. The number of paid accounts on our digital content stores grew double digits and reached a new all-time high during the December quarter in every geographic segment. Also, paid subscriptions continue to show very strong growth. We now have more than 785 million paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, which is up 165 million during the last 12 months alone. And finally, we're adding new services that we think our customers will love, and we continue to improve the breadth and quality of our current service offerings. Just in this last quarter, we have added incredible new content on Apple TV+, on Fitness+ and Apple Arcade and a brand-new way to listen to music with Apple Music Voice. We also announced in November the beta program for Apple Business Essentials, a new service offering that brings together device management 24/7 support and iCloud storage to our small businesses, manage the end-to-end life cycle of their employees' Apple devices. We are very excited that many thousands of small business customers are already actively participating in the beta program. This announcement is just one of many ways we are expanding our support for enterprise and business customers. With the latest MacBook Pros that we've introduced last October, the new M1-powered Mac lineup has quickly become the preferred choice of Macs among enterprise customers. Shopify, for example, is upgrading its entire global workforce to M1-powered MacBook Pro and MacBook Air. By standardizing on M1 Max, Shopify continues its commitment to providing the best tools to help its employees work productively and securely from anywhere. And Deloitte Consulting is expanding the deployment of the Mac Employee Choice program, including offering the new M1 MacBook Pro to empower their professionals to choose devices that work best for them in delivering consulting services. Let me now turn to our cash position. Due to our strong operating performance and holiday quarter seasonality, we ended the quarter with $203 billion in cash, plus marketable securities. We decreased commercial paper by $1 billion, leaving us with total debt of $123 billion. As a result, net cash was $80 billion at the end of the quarter. Our business continues to generate very strong cash flow, and we were able to return nearly $27 billion to shareholders during the December quarter. This included $3.7 billion in dividends and equivalents and $14.4 billion through open market repurchases of 93 million Apple shares. Our business continues to generate very strong cash flow, and we're also able to return nearly $27 billion to shareholders during the December quarter. This included $3.7 billion in dividends and equivalents and $14.4 billion through open market repurchases of 93 million Apple shares. We also began $6 billion accelerated share repurchase program in November, resulting in the initial delivery and retirement of 30 million shares. As we move ahead into the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Tejas referred to at the beginning of the call. Given the continued uncertainty around the world in the near term, we are not providing revenue guidance, but we are sharing some directional insights based on the assumption that the COVID-related impacts to our business do not worsen from what we are projecting today for the current quarter. We expect to achieve solid year-over-year revenue growth and set a March quarter revenue record despite significant supply constraints, which we estimate to be less than what we experienced during the December quarter. We expect our revenue growth rate to decelerate from the December quarter, primarily due to 2 factors. First, during the March quarter a year ago, we grew revenue by 54%. Remember that last year, we launched our new iPhones during the December quarter. While this year, we launched them during the September quarter. Due to the later launch a year ago, some of the associated channel inventory fill occurred during the March quarter last year. As a result of the different launch timing, we will face a more challenging year-over-year compare. Second, we expect foreign exchange to be a 3-point headwind when compared to the December quarter growth rate. We currently expect FX to have a negative impact on growth of 2 points in the March quarter, while it represented a 1 point benefit during the December quarter. Specifically related to Services, we expect to grow strong double digits but decelerate from the December quarter performance. This is due to a more challenging compare because a higher level of lockdowns around the world last year led to increased usage of digital content and services. We expect gross margin to be between 42.5% and 43.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $12.5 billion and $12.7 billion. We expect OI&E to be around negative $150 million, excluding any potential impact from the mark-to-market of minority investments, and our tax rate to be around 16%. Finally, today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.22 per share of common stock payable on February 10, 2022, to shareholders of record as of

Gala: Thank you, Luca. We ask that you limit yourself to two questions. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Nealy: Congrats on the solid iPhone result. That's very good. I assume that you may have prioritized iPhone to the extent there may be similar components that are used for iPhone and iPad. Can you just level set me on that if that's not the case? And if it is, should we see a recovery in iPad as you move past your prime iPhone selling season and you may have better access to components or better supply as we move through the next few months of the year?

Cook: Yes. Kyle, it's Tim. From a supply constraint point of view, as you recall, we said that in Q1, the December quarter, that would have constraints more than 6, and we clearly did have constraints more than 6. On March, we're saying that where we will have -- we will do better or have less constraints than we had in the December quarter. If you look at the commonality between different products, there is some. But generally, the challenge is on legacy nodes. And these legacy nodes are by supplier. And so it's much more focused on the supplier than anything else and versus us behind the curtain finding a place to take it. There's not -- none of that, but there is some of that.

Nealy: Okay. Great. Can you give us any other color on kind of the trajectory of iPad and what's impacting this quarter and where it might go in the March and the June quarter?

Maestri: Yes, Shannon. It was -- I mean it was really great on all fronts. We said December quarter records in every geographic segment. And then as I mentioned earlier, an all-time record for cloud, for music, for video, for advertising, for payment services. December quarter record in the App Store. So we've done, as you said, better than we were expecting at the beginning of the quarter. This overperformance has been spread around the world and spread around our services categories. And the reality is this combination of factors, the fact that the installed base is growing, the fact that we continue to have more and more engagement of our customers on all the services -- paid subscriptions is a phenomenal story, right? We now have 785 million paid subs. We just -- we've increased 165 million in the last 12 months alone, right? And so all these things combined are really powering the business.

Huberty: So first question just as it relates to some of the disruption you've seen on the component side, manufacturing and logistics over the past couple of years, are you starting to rethink your broader supply chain strategy or the manufacturing footprint on the back of the significant disruption? Are you happy with the overall geographic exposure that you see in the supply chain today?

Cook: Katy, if you sort of step back and look at how we've done, our largest issue by far has been the chip shortage. That is industry-wide and on these legacy nodes, as I had mentioned earlier. And I think our supply chain actually does very good considering the shortages because it's a fast-moving supply chain. The cycle times are very short. There's very little distance between a chip being fabricated and packaged and a product being -- going out of factory. And so, no, I don't see that it makes a fundamental change in the supply chain.

Huberty: Okay. And how are you thinking about the metaverse opportunity and Apple's role in that market?

Cook: Well, that's a big question. But we're a company in the business of innovation. So we're always exploring new and emerging technologies. And I -- you've spoken at length about how this area is very interesting to us. Right now, we have over 14,000 AR kit apps in the App Store, which provide incredible AR experiences for millions of people today. And so we see a lot of potential in this space and are investing accordingly.

Daryanani: I have 2 as well. I guess both up on the supply chain side, I think these continue to be fairly volatile. I'd love to get your perspective, if you feel, if things or supply chain issues are starting to alleviate or they still remain challenging? And then maybe I missed this, but could you perhaps tell us how much revenue was left on the table in December because of the supply chain issues? And how does that number shake up in March?

Cook: Yes. Amit, what we've said in terms of December and March was that it's very difficult to estimate with great precision the constraints. But we said that they would be more than the Q4 or more than the September quarter, and we're saying that March will be less than the December quarter. And so that's the kind of verbiage that we’ve placed around it. In terms of is it still challenging? Yes, it is challenging. And for us, we pride ourselves on getting products to customers who really want them and try to do that in a fast basis. And so it's frustrating that we can't always do that at the speed that we would like. However, March is better than December. And so there's some encouraging sign there. We're not predicting, overall, obviously because of the number of variables that go into such a prediction.

Cook: We have a little different model. We try to announce things when they're ready or close to ready and try to maintain an element of surprise in there. And so that explains hopefully what we do with our road map. And I think that's proven successful for us, and other people can do it differently, of course, but it's pretty been good for us over time to do that. So we're going to continue to do that. In terms of deciding where we invest in, we look at areas that are sort of at the intersection of hardware, software and services. And because we think that, that's where the magic really happens and it brings out the best in Apple. And so there are areas that have more than peaked our interest, and we are investing in those. And you can tell through time that we've ramped our R&D spend even more than we were before. And so there's quite a bit of investment going into things that are not on the market at this point as there always are.

Vogt: I just wanted to dive in perspective on China and sort of the macro climate there and how that sort of pertains to your business as we think about it going forward. And the reason why I'm asking is we've heard some concerns that current policies might have caused a pause in this market and smartphone inventory. Maybe more specifically the local vendors could be a little bit elevated going into Chinese New Year. So we just want to get your thoughts on what you're seeing in this market around, the sort of potential development and then maybe touch on sell-in versus sell-through in that market.

Cook: Well, I can only comment on, for us. Our sales grew 21% there in the last quarter, and we're very proud of that. I'll stay away and let other people be the economist and make the macro determinations. But what we're seeing there was super impressive with all-time revenue records and a record number of upgraders and strong double-digit growth in switchers on iPhone, which is very important to us. And as I've mentioned before, we had the top 4 selling phones in urban China. And so there's a lot of good there. And I would remind you that iPhone was constrained in the quarter. And so I'm not sure where the statements are coming around about inventory, and I can't comment on whether other people have more or not,

Vogt: That's helpful, Tim. And then maybe just on the supply chain. Obviously, you've been managing it incredibly well over the last 12 to 18 months. And gross margins have actually performed relatively well, mix driven both between products and services. Can you help us think about sort of the quantifiable impact or maybe the costs that you're carrying due to the supply chain that may be sort of -- I don't want to use the word transitory, but we'd expect over the longer term, that might be sort of abate a little bit and you'll get a little bit of a benefit as we get past some of these supply chain issues over the next 12 months or so?

Cook: We're seeing inflation, and it's factored into our gross margin and OpEx that Luca reviewed with you earlier. Logistics, as I've mentioned on a previous call, is very elevated in terms of the cost of moving things around. I would hope that at least a portion of that is transitory, but the world is -- the world has changed, and so we'll see.

Chatterjee: I had a couple. The first question that I had was really on Apple TV+, and I know some of the other players in this market have talked about slowing subscriber growth as we exit the pandemic. So curious if you can share what trends you're seeing in Apple TV and Apple TV+ and how similar or dissimilar they are and how your content is maybe helping you on that aspect?

Cook: Well, the -- with the Apple Watch, there's literally not days that go by without me getting notes about someone that's received a health alert. Maybe it's to do with their cardiovascular health. Or more recently, a lot of people have told me that they fell and was knocked unconscious and couldn't respond and the watch responded for them to emergency contacts and emergency personnel. And so there's a lot that we're doing today. My sense has always been that there's more here. I don't want to get into a road map discussion in the call. But we continue to kind of pull the string and see where it takes us. But we're really satisfied with how we're doing in this area because we are fundamentally changing people's lives and, in some cases, saving people's lives.

Cook: Thank you, Tejas. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Apple is proud to report another record quarter, with a March quarter revenue record of $97.3 billion, up 9% from a year ago and better than we anticipated. iPhone, Mac and Wearables, Home and Accessories had their best ever March quarter and Services set an all-time record on the strength of subscription growth over the past year. Before I get into details, I want to take a moment to acknowledge the humanitarian tragedy unfolding in Ukraine. We're continuing to do everything we can to support our teams in the region and we are donating to humanitarian efforts on the ground. We've also committed to donating products to support refugees arriving here in the United States. I also want to speak to the unpredictable nature of the pandemic. We are excited to be welcoming employees back to the offices in the US and Europe. At the same time, we are monitoring COVID-related disruptions in China. Our thoughts are with all those in the path of the virus and we remain as committed as ever to doing our part to help protect people and their communities. These times remind us that we cannot know what the future may hold. But they remind us too, that technology infused with humanity makes a real difference in the world. And that's where our focus has remained, on driving the innovations that can enrich people's lives. Throughout the quarter, Apple continued its streak of unparalleled innovation at an unmatched pace. With Apple Silicon our teams are pushing the limits of what we once thought possible and we are seeing leaps and bounds in performance and efficiency. Last month we announced another breakthrough with M1 Ultra, the world's most powerful chip for a personal computer. The incredible customer response to our M1-powered Macs helped propel a 15% year-over-year increase in revenue, despite supply constraints. We now have our most powerful Mac lineup ever, with the addition of the entirely new Mac Studio. Paired with the new studio display, a 5K resolution display equipped with its own A13 Bionic chip, this new desktop and display transform any workspace into a creative powerhouse. As we release the groundbreaking M1 Ultra, we also expanded our iPhone offerings adding two beautiful green finishes to the iPhone 13 lineup and introducing the new 5G-enabled iPhone SE, which is great for our existing users who want a smaller iPhone and a great value for people buying an iPhone for the first time. They love how much power and performance we've injected into such an affordable device and rave about its incredible camera and its lightning fast speeds. In the March quarter, iPhone revenue grew 5% over the previous year despite a challenging compare as we saw strong demand from our customers for the iPhone 13 family. And with the all-new iPad Air supercharged by M1, iPad brings more power and more versatility across the entire iPad lineup. For customers around the world, iPad continues to be essential for education, creativity and entertainment. That's why we're continuing to see such a strong demand for iPad even while navigating the significant supply constraint we predicted at the start of the quarter. Turning to Wearables Home and Accessories, we are pleased to see these products continue to delight our users growing 12% year-over-year. Customers are enthusiastically taking charge of their health with Apple Watch Series 7 and Apple Watch SE. The rich sound, beautiful colors and compact design of HomePod mini continue to make it a hit with customers. And there's still no better companion to Apple Music than AirPods with spatial audio that transforms the way we listen putting our customers right in the center of the music. The seamless integration of hardware software and services is at the center of our work and philosophy at Apple. Apple Services are designed to be easy to use with expert curation that brings our users compelling content from talented developers, creators, storytellers and artists. These principles are reflected in all of the services we've developed which continue to generate incredible enthusiasm from our customers. Services revenue rose to $19.8 billion in the March quarter reflecting a 17% increase from a year ago. We were especially excited to cheer on CODA as it won the Academy Award for Best Picture making Apple TV+ the first streaming service to win in this category. We were honored to be stewards of this incredibly powerful deeply moving film. In a little over two years Apple TV+ shows and movies have earned over 240 awards and more than 960 nominations from Severance to WeCrashed to Pachinko new Apple originals are connecting with audiences and earning praise from critics. We're also winning over sports fans with Friday Night Baseball, which debuted earlier this month and They Call Me Magic, a four-part documentary that premiered last week tracing the life of the iconic Magic Johnson. Fitness+ is helping users channel their inner athlete with a range of workout routines for any fitness level. We recently introduced a postpartum routine designed by mothers for mothers. And with our Apple heart and movement study, we are helping researchers glean new insights into cardiovascular fitness. As our products and services entertain customers and help them stay healthy, we're also working to make their lives easier. Arizona for example is the first state to enable its citizens to securely add their driver's license and state IDs to Apple Wallet. More states in the territory of Puerto Rico will soon follow. We've also announced plans to introduce Tap to Pay on iPhone a simple and secure way for businesses to accept contactless payments launching across the US later this year. To meet the needs of customers wherever they are, our Apple retail teams are constantly adapting to better serve them. We opened a new store in the United Arab Emirates this quarter at a unique waterfront location with panoramic views of the Abu Dhabi skyline. And earlier this month we opened a new store in Korea, our third and largest store in the heart of Seoul. And across the US we marked the return of in-person today at Apple Sessions with a special program featuring music from pop icon Lady Gaga. I'd like to thank our team members working in Apple stores, customer care centers, channel partner stores and our Apple Care teams for bringing customers the best of Apple. As we look to the environment, we are making good progress on our commitment to achieve carbon neutrality across our products and supply chain by 2030. Through our Green Bonds program, we're investing in breakthrough technologies like low-carbon aluminum which we will be integrating into the new iPhone SE. And we were pleased to announce recently that we've nearly doubled the number of our top suppliers who have committed to accelerating the transition to clean energy. We are also investing in renewable energy projects in communities most impacted by climate change around the world. As we do our part to protect our planet, we're also prioritizing people. As part of our long-standing commitment to inclusion and diversity, we're continuing to build a better, stronger Apple, rooted in a culture where everyone belongs. Last month we published an update on the progress we've made with inclusion and diversity at Apple. We've hired more women than ever into leadership roles. And in the US nearly 60% of all leadership openings were filled by people from underrepresented communities in 2021. We also recently announced a $50 million Supplier Employee Development Fund that will help workers in our supply chain discover additional educational opportunities and build new skills. And through our Racial Equity and Justice initiative, we're continuing to advance our work to support underrepresented communities and help build a more just and equitable world. Before I hand it over to Luca, I want to acknowledge the challenges we are seeing from supply chain disruptions driven by both COVID and silicon shortages to the devastation from the war in Ukraine. We are not immune to these challenges, but we have great confidence in our teams, in our products and services and in our strategy. Fundamentally our work is about making technology that enriches people's lives and unlocks the full creative potential of humanity. And though the twists and turns of the future may be uncertain what is certain is that we will never stop striving to be a force for good in the world in everything we do and everything we are.

Maestri: Thank you, Tim and good afternoon everyone. We are pleased to report very strong financial results for the March quarter during which we set a revenue record of $97.3 billion, up 9% year-over-year. We also set new March quarter records in the Americas, in Europe and in Greater China. On the product side, revenue was $77.5 billion, up 7% over a year ago and a March quarter record. We grew in each of our product categories except iPad, which remains significantly supply constrained throughout the quarter. And we set March quarter records for iPhone, Mac and Wearables Home and Accessories. This level of sales performance combined with unmatched customer satisfaction and loyalty, helped our installed base of active devices, reach an all-time high for all major product categories, as well as geographic segments. Our Services set an all-time revenue record of $19.8 billion, up 17% over a year ago, with March quarter records in every geographic segment and services category. Company gross margin was 43.7%, down 10 basis points from last quarter. A seasonal loss of leverage and unfavorable foreign exchange were partially offset by favorable mix. Products gross margin was 36.4%, down 200 basis points sequentially, mainly driven by seasonal loss of leverage and FX. Services gross margin was 72.6%, up 20 basis points sequentially due to a different mix. Operating cash flow of $28.2 billion, net income of $25 billion and diluted earnings per share of $1.52 were all March quarter records. These strong March quarter results capped a record first half of the fiscal year in the midst of a challenging macroeconomic environment. We generated over $220 billion in revenue growing 10% year-over-year and set all-time records for iPhone, Mac, Wearables Home and Accessories and Services. These record sales results drove strong double-digit growth in operating income and earnings per share. Let me now get into more detail for each of our revenue categories during the March quarter. iPhone revenue grew 5% year-over-year to a March quarter record of $50.6 billion despite supply constraints. Thanks to our continued strong customer response to our iPhone 13 family and the launch of our new iPhone SE. We set March quarter records in both developed and emerging markets and the latest survey of US consumers from 451 Research indicates iPhone customer satisfaction of 99% for the iPhone 13 family. As a result of this level of sales performance combined with unmatched customer loyalty, the iPhone active installed base reached a new all-time high across all geographies. For Mac, revenue of $10.4 billion was a March quarter record despite supply constraints with 15% year-over-year growth, driven by strong demand for our M1-powered MacBook Pro. As Tim mentioned earlier, our continued innovation and investment in Apple Silicon has clearly shown in our Mac results as the last seven quarters have been the best seven quarter ever for Mac. Our investment focus on Mac has also helped drive significant activity in our growing installed base. In fact, we had a March quarter record for upgraders, while at the same time, nearly half of the customers purchasing Mac were new to the product. iPad revenue was $7.6 billion, down 2% year-over-year due to continued supply constraints. Customer response to our iPad lineup including our new M1-powered iPad Air, remains very strong and our installed base of iPads reached a new all-time high during the quarter, with over half of the customers purchasing an iPad during the quarter being new to the product. Wearables, Home and Accessories set a March quarter record of $8.8 billion, up 12% year-over-year. And we set March quarter revenue records in both developed and emerging markets. In particular, our Wearables business has doubled in three years and is mainly the size of a Fortune 100 business, as we continue to attract many customers who are new to Wearables. For instance, Apple Watch continues to extend its reach, with over two-thirds of customers purchasing an Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product. Turning to Services. As I mentioned we reached an all-time revenue record of $19.8 billion, up 17%, with all-time records for the App Store, Music, Cloud Services and Apple Care and March quarter records for video, advertising and payment services. These impressive results reflect the impact of our continued investment in improving and expanding our Services portfolio and the positive momentum that we're seeing on many fronts. First, our installed base has continued to grow, reaching an all-time high across each geographic segment and major product category. Next, we continue to see increased customer engagement with our services. Our transacting accounts, paid accounts and accounts with paid subscriptions, all reached all-time highs during the March quarter in every geographic segment. Also, paid subscriptions continued to show very strong growth. We now have more than 825 million paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, which is up more than 165 million during the last 12 months alone. And finally, as Tim highlighted before, we continue to improve the breadth and the quality of our current service offerings while launching new services. In the enterprise market, many businesses and government organizations continue to turn to Apple for the latest technologies, to deliver innovative services to customers and employees. In March, Alaska Airlines began to replace the conventional airport self-service kiosks with iPad Pros for faster passenger check-in and self bag drop. Also, last month, the Western Australia Police Force completed the world's first commercial deployment of CarPlay across their entire fleet of vehicles, to complement the iPhone 13 issued to each officer. This allows officers to access critical information faster on the road and enhance public safety for the community. We also unveiled the general availability of Apple Business Essentials in the US, adding a new subscription services designed to help small businesses manage every aspect of their Apple device life cycle. Let me now turn to our cash position. As we continue to generate very strong cash flow, we ended the quarter with $193 billion in cash and marketable securities. We repaid $3.8 billion in maturing debt, while increasing commercial paper by $2 billion, leaving us with total debt of $120 billion. As a result, net cash was $73 billion at the end of the quarter. We returned nearly $27 billion to shareholders, during the March quarter. This included $3.6 billion in dividends and equivalents and $22.9 billion through open market repurchases of 137 million Apple shares. We also retired an additional 5 million shares in the final settlement of our 18th ASR. Given the continued confidence we have in our business now and into the future, today our Board has authorized an additional $90 billion for share repurchases, as we maintain our goal of getting to net cash neutral, overtime. We're also raising our dividend by 5% to $0.23 a share and we continue to plan for annual increases in the dividend going forward. As we move ahead into the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook which includes the types of forward-looking information that Tejas referred to at the beginning of the call. Given the continued uncertainty around the world in the near-term, we are not providing revenue guidance, but we are sharing some directional insights, based on the assumption that the COVID-related impacts to our business do not worsen from what we are projecting today for the current quarter. We believe our year-over-year revenue performance during the June quarter will be impacted by a number of factors. Supply constraints caused by COVID-related disruptions and industry-wide silicon shortages are impacting our ability to meet customer demand for our products. We expect these constraints to be in the range of $4 billion to $8 billion which is substantially larger than what we experienced during the March quarter. The COVID-related disruptions are also having some impact on customer demand in China. With respect to foreign exchange, we expect it to be a nearly 300 basis point headwind to our year-over-year growth rate. Additionally, we paused, all sales in Russia during the March quarter. This will impact our year-over-year growth rate by approximately 150 basis points. Specifically related to Services, we expect to continue to grow double-digits, but decelerate from our March quarter performance, due to some of the factors I just described. We expect gross margin to be between 42% and 43%. We expect OpEx to be between $12.7 billion and $12.9 billion. We expect OI&E to be around negative $100 million excluding any potential impact from the mark-to-market of minority investments and our tax rate to be around 16%. Finally, reflecting the dividend increase I mentioned earlier, today our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.23 per share of common stock, payable on May 12th 2022 to shareholders of record as of

Gala: Thank you, Luca. We ask that you limit yourself to two questions. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Huberty: Okay. And as it relates to that in China, how should we think about lockdowns from an impact on supply and an impact on demand? And what products in your portfolio should we expect to be most impacted?

Cook: Yes. Good question. For Q2 so the quarter that we just finished, the restrictions in China had not started yet. And so Q2, we did have supply constraints. They were significantly lower than what we had experienced during the December quarter. They were driven by industry-wide silicon shortages. And specifically, the issue that I talked about on previous calls with the legacy nodes. But looking ahead, we see two causes of supply constraints. One is the COVID-related disruptions; and there's the industry-wide silicon shortages that will continue. We've estimated the constraints to be in the range of $4 billion to $8 billion. And if you – these constraints are primarily centered around the Shanghai corridor. And the – on a positive front, almost all of the affected final assembly factories have now restarted. And so the range – the $4 billion to $8 billion range reflects various ramps of getting back up and running. We're also encouraged that the COVID case count that's been reported in Shanghai has decreased over the last few days. And so there's – there's some reason for optimism there.

Daryanani: Good afternoon. Thanks for taking my questions. I guess I have two as well. First of all I was hoping you just touched a little bit on the geographic growth vectors that you saw. And I think Americas grew really well 19%, 20%. But Europe and China had much more muted growth if you may. I know your compares are fairly difficult but I'm curious if anything you would call out in terms of spillover effect on the macro side from Russia, Ukraine in Europe that's seeing some impact to consumer spend or even in

Maestri: So Amit, as you said in the Americas, we had a very strong quarter up 19% very happy across the board there. Europe, again was a really good quarter for us. We grew 5% in spite of the fact that of course as you know during the month of March, we paused our sales in Russia. So we had an impact to our sales results there for a month of the quarter. But a number of European countries particularly in Western Europe did really-really well for us. And so it was a very good quarter for us pretty much in line with our expectations. Americas was better than our expectations. China was again a March quarter record for us. Keep in mind and this affected every geographic segment for us the different launch timing for the iPhone this year versus a year ago had an impact on the March quarter results because we launched the product later a year ago than we did this year. So some of the channel fill for the new products happened during the March quarter a year ago. Japan and Asia Pacific were affected by foreign exchange. Japan would have grown in line with company average in constant currency terms. Asia Pacific as well was affected by foreign exchange with the dollar appreciating against most currencies. And then again this difference in the launch timing for the iPhone made a difference. Keep in mind again the supply constraints that we had during the quarter our results would have been obviously better without the supply constraints.

Daryanani: If I could just follow up on the supply chain the $4 billion to $8 billion impact that you folks talked about. Do you think this is demand that's deferred out, or demand that's essentially destroyed because you have a product cycle that's going to come out in the year at some point soon this year? How do you think about demand deferred versus demand destroyed on that front? And then is there a sense of which product categories are most impacted by this versus not?

Cook: It will affect most of the product categories. And in terms of whether it's -- whether we can recapture or not we believe that there's a percentage of it that is recapturable and a percentage of it that is likely not where somebody needs something quickly. And that ratio or that percentage is very difficult to estimate. We obviously, try to do that internally in order to demand plan but it's not something that we share.

Cook: Yes. Chris it's hard to answer a question about unannounced products. And so I'll try to not do that. But the—

Cook: The $4 billion to $8 billion is simply as I had mentioned that if you look at the Shanghai corridor -- we have some final assembly plants in this area. And almost all of them have restarted as the good news of it working with local officials. But we planned various ramps for these. And that's the range of 4% to 8% that we've estimated.

Caso: As a follow-up I wanted to also follow on some of your comments regarding inflation and how Apple is dealing with it. Obviously component costs have been going up in many different areas. And then specifically in the semiconductor side costs have been going up but perhaps for some different reasons because of the additional cost of going up to new process nodes that it's higher than it has been in the past. How is Apple planning to deal with that? And is it possible for you to get through that without either raising prices on your product or affecting gross margins?

Cook: We were happy with the iPhone growth last quarter, particularly when you think about the comp that it was going against because we had very different timing on the launches in the year ago quarter where we launched in Q1. And therefore naturally Q2 is at a different place on the new product curve. And so, it was a very difficult comp. And so we were pleased with it. And as Luca said, the Americas geography did quite well last quarter. And the US, of course, is the major geography within there.

Suva: Thank you. Tim and your entire company has done a great job at navigating through all the issues in the past several years whether it be COVID, power outages, trade wars, shipping challenges and all that. When we hopefully someday get past all of these and the supply constraints in society and turmoil hopefully across the world, do you start to reconsider the way you do the supply chain albeit just-in-time ordering and outsourcing so much of your chips? Or do you actually consider like holding more buffer inventory internally, because right now letting $4 billion to $8 billion go away it'd be nice to have that to be able to sell. So do you consider holding more buffer inventory or maybe even doing your own chips by outsourcing your own chips to control them more, or how should we think about strategically when hopefully the world is in a better place from today?

Cook: Well, I'm looking forward to that day as I know all of you are. Our supply chain is truly global. And so the products are made everywhere. And we do a lot in the U.S. We'll probably be doing even more here as more chips are produced here. And we continue to look at optimizing. We learn something every day and make changes. But when you back up and kind of zoom out and look to see how the supply chain has done within the environment that you eloquently talked about, I think it's been very resilient with -- the top issue we've had clearly is the silicon shortage that I think everybody is struggling with. And I think we've done a really good job of managing through the COVID piece of it. And so -- but we are learning and we're making some changes as we go, we don't have a tenure. And so, to the degree that we learn something that we should change, you can bet that we're doing that. In this business you don't want to hold a ton of inventory. And so you want to work on cycle times and so forth to do things very quickly and take strategic inventory in places where you need to buffer for interruptions and so forth. And so we're constantly thinking about where those places are. In today's world it's not really possible for us to have buffer on silicon. And so, today silicon rolls off the fab and it's into a final assembly plant very, very quickly and we try to make that as short a time as possible.

Suva: And then my quick follow-up. We've been talking about supply chain issues for multiple quarters now. Are you kind of hearing from your suppliers that maybe later half of this year, or is it actually going to go into kind of 2013 for some closer equilibrium time period?

Cook: Yeah. I wouldn't – you're talking about for the silicon shortage in particular I assume. I don't want to predict that, because the – that entails knowing how worldwide demand and supply are for the whole – for industries outside of even the industry we're in. And I don't proclaim to be an expert in that. That also heavily is influenced by how strong the economies are in the different markets. And so I think there are varying levels of outcomes. And what we're focused on is doing – trying to do very well regardless of how that question is answered.

Chatterjee: Hi. Thanks for taking my question and congrats on the results as well. I'll stick to two more micro level questions here. Firstly, Tim you talked about the iPhone SE three demand that you the product that you just launched. I was hoping you could compare what you're seeing in terms of momentum to previous iPhone SE cycles? Particularly I think in the past North America has been the largest region in terms of demand what are you seeing with the current product in terms of demand by geography? And I have a quick follow-up for Luca?

Maestri: Well we feel really great about the momentum for our Services business. I was looking at the absolute numbers here. This run rate of almost $20 billion is essentially double what we had just four years ago. So we've done really, really well with Services. We have a lot of momentum for a variety of reasons. The first one is the fact that our installed base of active devices continues to grow very nicely. And so that is obviously a big engine for our Services business. The second thing is that the level of engagement that we see on our platform continues to grow. We have more transacting accounts, more paying accounts, more accounts with subscriptions. The absolute amount of paid subscriptions on our platform is pretty impressive 825 million. It's an increase of 165 million in the last 12 months alone. So you can tell that this is great growth. And of course, as you've seen over the last few years, we've added a lot of new services and we plan to add new services and new features that we believe that our customers would love. And so we think that's a great -- absolute great momentum. The growth rates can change a bit, especially during COVID because we've gone through some cycles of lockdowns and then reopenings and so on. And so sometimes the comps can be a bit deceiving. We are looking at it from the lens of continuing to satisfy our customers, adding to the portfolio, improving the quality of the services and that has served us very well, because in the last 12 months, we've generated $75 billion of Services revenue. And you've seen the margins are obviously accretive to company margin. So we feel good, we feel good about the Services business. I mentioned in my prepared remarks that the growth rate for the June quarter, we expect it to be less than the 17% that we've reported in March for some of the reasons that I described. Of course, foreign exchange is an issue with the dollar being strong at this point. And of course we paused, our sales in Russia. So we need to take that into account. But in general, when we look across the board, we set all-time records and quarterly records for each one of our categories.

Sankar: Yeah. Hi. Thanks for taking my question and congrats on the really strong results. I have two questions too and I do apologize. The first one is on supply constraints. Luca, if I tried to read the deal based on June quarter guidance revenue is being impacted kind of implies year-over-year down revenue. And you also spoke about a $4 billion to $8 billion supply constraint which is a large amount compared to the revenue. And I understand you have the supply constraints and the China shutdowns. I'm just kind of curious, do you think the last three quarters Apple supply chain had a better buffer inventory of semis that kind of got used up and now you're kind of more tied to whatever the true supply contains of legacy semis, or is there something else going on?

Maestri: What has happened obviously during COVID has change over the quarters. Recently, for example during the March quarter, the constraints that we had were limited to silicon shortages. When we are giving out this range of $4 billion to $8 billion, it's not only silicon but it's the restrictions in China that we're seeing right now. So they are different. There's additional constraints at this point that we are seeing because of the C

Sankar: Got it. Got it. Very helpful. And then as a quick follow-up with the shutdowns, especially in places like China, have you seen actually the App Stores or your Services business actually inflect positively, or is it too short a time frame to make a judgment call on that?

Maestri: Yes, I think, it's early to tell. The restrictions in China started at the very end of

Mohan: Yes. Thank you. Luca, thanks for the color around the impacts to the revenue guidance. But I was wondering if you could share a if you expect to grow overall revenue in the June quarter on a year-on-year basis. And just to be clear on these impacts that you gave those are on a year-on-year basis. Can you also tell us how much FX is a headwind if any on a quarter-on-quarter basis and incremental Russia impact quarter-on-quarter basis and incremental supply chain impact also on a quarter-on-quarter basis?

Maestri: Well, as we said, we're not guiding to a specific revenue number. And -- but just to repeat what I said during the prepared remarks, we're having supply constraints that are caused by the COVID-related disruptions and by the silicon shortages. And that is what is creating the constraints. We expect them to be in the range of $4 billion to $8 billion. This is substantially larger than what we've had during the March quarter. Again, let me repeat the COVID-related disruptions did not affect the March quarter. So you need to keep that in mind. With respect to foreign exchange, we expect it to be nearly 300 basis points headwind. It was about 200 basis points headwind during the March quarter. For Russia, we said that the impact on a year-over-year basis is approximately 150 basis points, that reflects the three months of the quarter. We paused sales in Russia at the beginning of March. So it was a partial impact on the March quarter. So, obviously, on a sequential basis, it's an incremental factor to keep in mind. I would say on the positive side here is that the demand for both our products and services is solid. Tim has mentioned a number of times the iPhone 13 family is having a really strong year. We -- when we look at top-selling smartphones around the world, we've had pretty incredible results during the March quarter. The top six models in the United States are iPhones, the top four in Japan, the top five in Australia, five of the top six in urban China and so on and so forth. So the iPhone 13 has been truly a global success. And as you know and as you can tell even from our website, most of the iPad and Mac models are constrained today. They've been constrained for several quarters, because the demand is very good for those products. And the Services business as you know is growing double digits. So that's what gives us confidence for the

Mohan: Okay. Thank you, Luca. And if I could follow-up, Tim you're in a really enviable place of being pretty far from your net cash neutral objective. At the same time, you're generating a significant amount of cash flow every year. So your capital return strategy has been an extremely successful program in the past, but $90 billion is 3% of your market cap. And on the other hand there are just a lot of assets that arguably have a lot of synergies with Apple in the health care space, the fitness area like Teladoc or or Netflix in the content area. Why is this not the right time for Apple to perhaps look at such assets instead of buying back stock or maybe do both?

Cook: We're always looking and we continue to look. But we would only acquire something that were strategic. We acquire a lot of smaller companies today and we'll continue to do that for IP and for great talent. And -- but we don't discount doing something larger either if the opportunity presents itself. And so -- but I don't want to go through my list with you on the phone, but we're always looking.

Nealy: Hi, thanks very much for the question. This one is regarding Mac. Great quarter with the results by the way, some exciting products coming out for sure. We're noticing that there's the lead times are longer for Mac's now ordered today with some available now but many not shipping until June. Just wanted to get your insight on how much of that you think is driven by the strong March results with the product launch and likely sellout conditions versus just real tightness in the supply chain? And the obvious follow-on to that is when do you expect you might catch up and get Mac lead times back within a week?

Cook: Well, we're working hard. We've got lots of customers that we want to get the new Macs too. And so we're working hard on them. They are a result of the combination of the COVID disruptions and the silicon shortage that we've talked about before. And when we might remedy that, I don't -- we're not really forecasting when we can be out of the silicon shortage, so that would be a difficult answer. I think the COVID piece of it I hope is a transitory kind of issue.

Bollin: Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for taking the question. The first one is on services. Luca, I was hoping you could share a little bit of perspective on maybe how much of the services contribution is purely consumer versus enterprise? And how you think about the longer term opportunity to monetize the enterprise community? And then Tim for you as a follow-up, I think Jim Suva had asked a question earlier about some of your strategy. I was curious how strategy might have evolved since everything has been going on, what changes you might have seen as of late with respect to freight and some of the geographic production footprint? And any evolution that has happened as of late?

Maestri: So Ben on the services side, of course, the vast majority of what we do in services is to final consumers. We do understand and appreciate the fact that the enterprise is a great opportunity for us. Very recently, for example, we launched this new subscription service here in the United States which we call Apple Business Essentials where essentially we provide support to small and medium-sized businesses in terms of 24/7 support device management for small business owners which we think small companies will value and appreciate. Obviously, we sell Apple Care to enterprises already today. But we know enterprise in general as a market is a very interesting market for us and we're putting a lot of effort and focus on it and we believe we have really good opportunities to grow.

Cook: Ben, you brought up freight. Freight is a huge challenge in today both from an inflationary point of view and from an availability point of view. And so right now the focus is on moving the freight to customers any way that we can do that. Over time, we'll do that much more efficiently. And I would hope that the fundamental rates reset some both -- and I'm talking about both ocean and air. And so both of them have come under some significant inflationary pressure partly due to COVID and some other reasons as well I would guess. And in terms of geo production we are constantly making tweaks here and there. And I don't want to go into the details of those because we view it as to be sensitive kind of information, but we're constantly making moves to optimize in the current environment.

Cook: Thank you, Tejas. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, Apple is reporting another record June quarter with revenue of $83 billion, which was better than we expected despite supply constraints, strong foreign exchange headwinds and the impact of our business in Russia. We set June quarter records in the Americas, in Europe and in the rest of Asia Pacific region. We also saw June quarter revenue records in both developed and emerging markets with very strong double-digit growth in Brazil, Indonesia and Vietnam and a near doubling of revenue in India. We saw great enthusiasm for our products and services, resulting in an all-time record for our installed base of active devices. Our supply constraints were less than we anticipated at the beginning of the quarter, coming in slightly below the range we discussed during our last call. We know that this is a time of significant challenge around the world for all of us confronting new variants of COVID-19, to those experiencing a prolonged humanitarian crisis in Ukraine and everyone dealing with the consequences of an uncertain economic environment. We know that much of the world is living through uneasy times, and it is all the more reason why we are working hard to help our customers navigate the world as it is while empowering them to create the world as it can be. Turning to iPhone. We set a June quarter record for both revenue and switchers to iPhone. With its advanced performance, capability and ease of use, customers continue to find that iPhone remains the gold standard for smartphones. And they've been raving about the iPhone 13 lineup's extraordinary camera quality with features like cinematic mode and macro photography to create eye-catching content. We were also proud to celebrate the 15th anniversary of iPhone, a device that continues to change the world in profound ways with each new innovation. Last month, Apple unleashed a wave of innovation, including the completely redesigned MacBook Air and a new 13-inch MacBook Pro. Both of these systems are powered by M2, our next generation of Apple silicon for Mac. M2 delivers a faster CPU, GPU and neural engine along with higher memory bandwidth and new capabilities like Pro Res acceleration. And it continues the tremendous pace of innovation in Apple silicon for the Mac. We continue to have supply constraints with Mac, but we're encouraged by the strong response from customers to our incredible lineup. iPad, like Mac, continued to see strong demand during the June quarter despite ongoing supply constraints. Customers and developers have been especially excited about the new features we're bringing to iPad with iPadOS 16. This update was one of the many announcements we made at a truly extraordinary WWDC, where we shared a range of new features that give customers more control of their experience than ever before. This includes the ability to edit or delete sent messages, a new way of organizing apps on iPad and Mac, and an all-new customizable lock screen on iPhone and so much more. Today, iOS 16, iPadOS 16, MacOS Ventura and watchOS 9 are all in public beta, and we couldn't be more excited to see what our community of developers creates with them. We unveiled new innovations and accessibility such as door detection and live captions that support users with disabilities with navigation, health, communication and more. We also announced Apple Pay Later, which gives customers more flexibility to make purchases with their Apple devices. And with our next generation of CarPlay, we're improving the driving experience with deeper integration into vehicle hardware, allowing drivers to control their music, change the temperature and monitor their fuel levels, all from a single integrated platform. In the Wearables, Home and Accessories category, the innovation infused across our products continues to win over new customers. Apple Watch remains a great way for health-conscious customers to track their overall wellness and fitness. And we're bringing them even more data about their workouts, sleep cycles and medications with updates soon to arrive on watchOS 9. We were also pleased to get FDA approval for a new feature that will let users with irregular heart rhythms track the time they spend in Afib. Turning to Services. Customers continue to engage enthusiastically with our content across news, fitness, music, gaming and more. Services revenue rose to $19.6 billion, a June quarter record and a 12% increase year-over-year, which was in line with our expectations. We're proud of how Apple TV+ productions like Severance and Black Bird have captured the popular imagination, and we're looking forward to more exceptional content developed by extraordinary creators throughout the year. In 2.5 years since launch, Apple TV+ has now earned 250 wins and over 1,100 award nominations and counting. Just this month, we learned that Apple TV+ earned 52 Emmy Award nominations across 13 titles. In our last call, I mentioned Friday Night Baseball on Apple TV+, which is already delighting baseball fans. And last month, we announced a 10-year deal to present Major League soccer matches around the world, giving global soccer fans a whole new way of viewing their favorite sport. One of the best parts of WWDC was welcoming developers to Apple Park while continuing to connect with developers all over the world. This year, we had an incredible group of developers and more opportunities to learn from one another than ever before. It was a truly special experience and a reminder of the economic miracle the App Store represents. We are proud of the fact that the iOS app economy supports more than 2.2 million jobs here in the United States and many more around the world. It's been wonderful to see earnings by small developers more than double over the past 2 years. And as we're supporting developers, we're also doing our part to protect customers. In 2021, we prevented nearly $1.5 billion in fraudulent transactions by stopping over 1.6 million risky and vulnerable apps and app updates. Now I want to turn to retail. This quarter, we opened the doors to Apple's first store in the Hubei province in China, welcoming the community to a beautiful new space. And earlier today, we opened Apple Brompton Road, our fifth store in Central London. We also expanded today at Apple Creative Studios to reach even more young creatives from underrepresented communities to help them realize their potential and bring their best ideas to life. I'd like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to our team members working in Apple Stores, customer care centers and channel partner stores and to our Apple Care teams for their incredible work supporting customers wherever they are. Creating innovative products and services that enrich people's lives is our mission. Leading with our values and everything we do gives that mission purpose. That includes a commitment to the environment where we continue our aggressive pursuit of our 2030 goals. It includes our focus on diversity and inclusion, where we are committed as ever to making progress. And it includes our work to promote racial equity and justice. We recently announced that the Global Equity Innovation Hub, in partnership with Cal State Northridge, will provide new community grants to Hispanic-serving institutions to help the next generation of creators and innovators build skills and pursue high-demand careers in STEM. We also celebrated the graduation of the inaugural class of our Developer Academy in Detroit from a program designed to give students the skills they need to pursue jobs in the thriving iOS app economy. Leading with our values also means leading with a steadfast commitment to privacy and security. Last month, we announced the introduction of passkey, a next-generation credential that's intended to replace passwords. A passkey can't be phished nor can it be stolen by hackers in a data breach because the information is stored on your device and your device alone. And as part of our effort to combat targeted attacks against the highest risk targets like journalists and human rights activists, we introduced Lockdown Mode, which is designed to protect those most at risk of sophisticated digital attacks. And we're committed to doing our part to address the housing crisis across California. To date, we have deployed more than $1.3 billion to a number of initiatives, including ones that provide financial assistance to low and moderate income first-time home buyers develop new affordable housing and help support vulnerable populations. This quarter has ultimately been a reflection of our resilience and our optimism. As we look forward, we're clear-eyed about the uncertainty in the macro environment. Yet we remain ever focused on the same vision that has guided us from the beginning. We strive every day to be a place where imagination ignites innovation like nowhere else, where good people come together to achieve great things, where customers are the center of everything we do. And we'll continue to execute on that vision as we always have, led by a focus on excellence and a desire to leave the world better than we found it.

Woodring: I have two as well. Maybe Tim, if I start with you, I think there's a debate in the market that if you look back over time, there's been a 3-year cadence to iPhone cycles. We're 2 years into your 5G iPhone evolution. You're on track to grow units in '21 and '22. That implies there could be some pressure next year as upgrade rates slow. But your comments really suggest no slowdown. You're seeing double-digit growth in customers new to iPhone. So can you just walk us through some of the various factors you believe are driving this continued iPhone strength?

Cook: Today, the product and the innovation within the product that is driving it. And of course, the other key variables are some things that Luca mentioned earlier where the size of the installed base has been growing significantly. We also, just in this quarter, the June quarter, set a June quarter record for switchers with strong double-digit growth. And so this is fueling the additional installed base even more. And we continue to execute across some significant geographies where there's a very low penetration of iPhone. Some of those were called out in the opening remarks between Indonesia and Vietnam and India, where we did quite well, and iPhone tends to be the engine for those markets, particularly at the beginning of creating the market there for Apple products. And so we're really looking at all of these things from the installed base to the number of switchers to the geographic distribution. Of course, the most important thing for us is to maintain an incredible customer satisfaction and loyalty from the customers. And we're really pleased that it's currently at 98% for the latest iPhones. And so those are the things that underpin it. 5G has been an accelerant. And the 5G penetration, particularly if you look at it globally, is still quite low. In some geographies, it's obviously higher, but around the world, 5G penetration is still low.

Woodring: Okay, that's helpful. And then maybe, Luca, for you. As we move from the June to the September quarter, maybe can you dig a level deeper and kind of help us understand some of the moving pieces in the Services business? Meaning where do you think we could see an acceleration or maybe a deceleration? And should we still expect double-digit growth?

Maestri: Yes. I mean, obviously, affordability is a very important topic for us. It's been for many years. Buy now, pay later is the latest that we are doing on this front. Fundamentally, we are working on 2 major initiatives for affordability. One is installment plans and installment plans have become more widespread around the world, not only here in the United States but in most markets, particularly in emerging markets. Incredibly important in terms of reducing the affordability threshold. And trading programs. Trading programs are available in a number of markets. We can do better in other markets. They're incredibly important because the residual value of our products is a huge differentiator for our users. After they use our devices, they can bring them back and they retain much more value than other platforms. And therefore, it's important for us to raise that awareness. And so we will continue to expand those programs around the world.

Vogt: I just wanted to circle back on sort of the macro and sort of the demand signals that you're seeing versus sort of the supply chains that you're facing. I know that there's been a couple of U.S. carriers that have talked about some of their customers having some difficulty paying bills. And you mentioned in your prepared remarks that you saw sort of the record number of switchers in the quarter. So just wanted to kind of get a sense for what you're seeing in that particular channel without naming a specific customer. And are you seeing any sort of issues from a spin-down effect maybe because customers are having some difficulty because of inflation?

Cook: On the -- from an aggregate point of view, looking at it worldwide, looking at the data on iPhone for the June quarter, there's not obvious evidence in there that there's a macroeconomic headwind. I'm not saying that there's not one. I'm saying that the data doesn't show it where we can clearly see that in the Wearables,

Vogt: Great. And then on the Mac business, I know that you are severely supply chain constrained. But is there a way to kind of think about the impact of the market overall on the Mac business versus the supply chain? It sounds like -- I guess, it sounds like it's almost effectively 100% supply chain constrained, but we're obviously hearing, like I'm sure you guys are seeing, anecdotal evidence and some quantifiable evidence that the broader PC market is slowing. And I think about 90 days ago, you were pretty confident with the new M2 chip that you could continue to grow throughout a potential drawdown in that particular market. Do you still feel that way? And if you can kind of share how you're thinking about the different sort of components of your growth versus the market.

Cook: Yes, I wouldn't want to project into this quarter. But for last quarter, what we saw was the -- when the COVID restrictions hit in the Shanghai corridor, we lost the primary source of supply for Mac units. And that was either running at a reduced rate or down completely for the majority of the quarter. And so it was a very big impact to the Mac business. We felt good, frankly, that we were able to, by the end of the quarter, get this back to where we were down 10 points. But the negative 10 I would classify as being driven by supply. And of course, FX feeds into this as well because of the translation issues around the world. There's also some impact because of the business in Russia. But those are the 3 kind of reasons that I would tell you. In terms of testing the demand, you can't really test the demand unless you have the supply. And we were so far from that last quarter that we have an estimate of what we believe demand was. But it is an estimate. We recognize how the industry is doing. We think that we've got a great story with the Mac with getting M1 out and now M2 out. We have a very, very strong offering for the back-to-school season and we'll see how we do this quarter.

Bollin: Tim, I was hoping you could share a little bit more about how you're thinking about the supply headwinds. You said less severe or less worse supply challenges into September. I'm interested when you think you find balance across products. And also, any thoughts on how or when that might influence replenishment of supply into your retail channels?

Cook: To give you a little more color on what we saw in the June quarter, we came in slightly below, from a constraint point of view, the $4 billion number that we had put, at the 4 to 8 are the low end of that range. And the majority of that constraint last quarter was coming out of the COVID restrictions that occurred, that resulted in plant closures and plants running at less than full utilization for some amount of the quarter, in some cases, the majority of the quarter. And then the other component that is the minority part of it is the silicon shortage that has affected our results for several quarters now. If you look into the future, the silicon shortage, we're not forecasting when that will end. We think that in the aggregate, our constraint numbers for the September quarter will be less than they were in the June quarter. But of the 2 -- there are these 2 components, and of course, we're optimistic about the

Bollin: Okay. The other item. Tim, any thoughts on how you're thinking strategy is evolving with respect to progress in AR, VR in your existing products? Anything you're learning about content or how you're thinking about that opportunity?

Cook: It's challenging to measure the replacement cycle at any point in time with exact precision, and so I'm going to punt on the question a bit. However, our key task is to make a product that everybody loves and that they want to trade in their current phone to get. And so that's what we are focused on is innovating like crazy and giving somebody something that they really want and see themselves using.

Suva: Okay, that makes sense. Well, then maybe I can ask Luca a question more on the gross margins. As you look ahead, the supply chain issues, expedited shipping and all of that, do you think probably the September quarter is kind of the worst of FX and all those headwinds and things? Or is there a little bit of timing delays due to your contractual purchase commitments that you do, that maybe your suppliers are looking at higher costs and you're benefiting from some lower contracts or maybe that has already caught up? If you could give us some insights on the kind of longer-term nature of the directions or the gross margin impacts.

Maestri: Jim, I would say we provide guidance for the current quarter. But if we look ahead, there's always a couple of elements in gross margin that are a bit outside of our control and we need to be mindful of that. One of them is the foreign exchange environment. That is having an impact already for the September quarter, had an impact on June. And obviously, strong dollar tends to be a headwind for us. As you know, we have a hedging program and so we mitigate that impact. But over time, those hedges roll off and so it becomes more challenging for us. We'll see what happens with foreign exchange rates over time. That is going to be a variable that we need to track. The other one that has an impact on the aggregate gross margin is our mix of products and services. As you know, they have different margin profiles for very different reasons, different businesses, even different accounting treatment at times. And so that is also something that we will need to track over time. What matters to us, I think it goes back to Tim was saying earlier, is we want to make sure that people love our products and services, and we want all of them to be equally successful in the marketplace. Certainly, as you've seen over the last year, we've had a significant expansion in gross margins in spite of very difficult economic circumstances from COVID to inflation, interest rates going up and our margins have expanded. From a commodity standpoint, I think you were asking a question around components. Commodities are behaving okay. We're seeing some price pressure on some silicon components.

Cook: China had very good results on Services last quarter. And so they grew strong double digit better than the company average, and they set a new

Cook: Thank you, Tejas. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining the call today. Over the past year, despite a range of challenges facing the world, our teams have come together in incredible ways to drive unparalleled innovation and deliver again and again for our customers. For the September quarter, we reported record revenue of $90.1 billion, which was better than we anticipated despite stronger-than-expected foreign currency headwinds. We set an all-time revenue record for Mac and September quarter records for iPhone and Wearables, Home and Accessories. Services notched a September quarter record as well with revenue of $19.2 billion and more than 900 million paid subscriptions. We reached another record on our installed base of active devices, thanks to a quarterly record of upgraders and double-digit growth in switchers on iPhone. Across nearly every geographic segment, we reached a new revenue record for the quarter. And we continue to perform incredibly well in emerging markets with very strong double-digit growth in India, Southeast Asia and Latin America. I'm also happy to report that during the quarter, silicon-related supply constraints were not significant. I want to acknowledge that we are still living through unprecedented times. From war in Eastern Europe to the persistence of COVID-19, from climate disasters around the world to an increasingly difficult economic environment, a lot of people and a lot of places are struggling. Through it all, we've aimed to help our customers navigate through the challenges while giving them the tools to drive progress for themselves and their communities. At Apple, creativity and collaboration have always been at the core of who we are. That spirit of ingenuity and teamwork helped us provide our customers with incredible innovations this year and led to another yearly revenue record. In fiscal 2022, Apple achieved revenue of $394 billion, representing 8% annual growth. We set records for iPhone, Mac, Wearables, Home and Accessories and Services while growing double digits in emerging markets and setting records in the vast majority of markets we track. Customers are loving our iPhone 14 lineup. Loaded with camera upgrades for sharper photos, Action Mode for smoother videos and new safety features like Crash Detection and Emergency SOS via Satellite, iPhone is even more indispensable to our daily lives. iPhone 14 and iPhone 14 Plus come with a new dual-camera system, industry-leading durability, incredible power and amazing battery life. And our iPhone 14 Pro models are packed with even more groundbreaking innovations, including a new camera system as well as always-on display and the Dynamic Island, which offers a whole new way to interact with iPhone. Just yesterday, our most advanced iPad and iPad Pro ever landed in stores. With its all-screen design, advanced cameras and faster wireless connectivity, the tenth generation iPad looks and performs better than ever. For creatives, iPad Pro, now turbocharged by the blazingly fast M2 chip, is the perfect device to make something amazing. Our Mac customers have already been raving about the power of M2 since the arrival of our newest MacBook Air and MacBook Pro this summer. Their incredible long battery life, stunningly rich display and lightning fast speeds are a signature part of the Mac experience and helped drive an all-time record revenue for Mac during the September quarter. In Wearables, Home and Accessories a wave of innovation spurred 10% year-over-year revenue growth during the September quarter. New features in Apple Watch Series 8, including temperature sensing capabilities, retrospective ovulation estimates and crash detection are helping to keep customers healthier and safer. And the updated Apple Watch SE is a great way for users to start their Apple Watch journey, delivering advanced features at a new low price. The biggest, brightest and boldest Apple Watch ever made, Apple Watch Ultra pushes the boundaries of what a smartwatch can do. Packed with innovations like advanced navigation tools and the new Oceanic+ app, which turns it into a dive computer, Apple Watch Ultra has something for athletes and adventures on land and sea. The second generation of AirPods Pro powered by the new H2 chip are receiving rave reviews for delivering an unmatched wireless earbud audio experience, while canceling up to twice as much noise over the previous model. There's no better place to discover the rich spatial audio capabilities of AirPods Pro than Apple Music, the largest music catalog anywhere now with more than 100 million songs. And there's no other company that fuses best-in-class hardware with cutting-edge software and services to create a truly integrated and seamless experience. With iOS 16, we're giving customers more ways to personalize their iPhones through a customizable lock screen and focus filters. New features in Messages and Mail enable users to connect and collaborate like never before. Stage Manager in iPadOS 16 and macOS Ventura, helps users stay more productive with smoother multitasking. And watchOS 9 is empowering customers to live a healthier day through updates to the Sleep App, a new FDA-cleared AFib history feature and the new Medications app. Across our Services, we continue to see enthusiasm and strong engagement from our subscribers. Apple TV+ hits like Severance, Bad Sisters and Blackbird have taken center stage on screens around the world. And baseball fans were glued to their seats this season watching Friday Night Baseball. Meanwhile, Apple TV+ productions continue to earn accolades. At the 74th Primetime Emmy Awards in September, Apple brought home 9 statues, including a second consecutive win for Best Comedy Series for Ted Lasso. And soon, we're going to give audiences an even better entertainment experience when the all-new Apple TV 4K hit stores next week. We're also bringing Fitness+ to more customers than ever by making our entire library of over 3,000 studio-style workouts and meditations available to iPhone users in 21 countries, even those without an Apple Watch. These updates are arriving just in time for a new Artist Spotlight series with workouts featuring the music of Taylor Swift and a new workout program, Yoga for Every Runner featuring and design with one of the world's top ultramarathon athletes, Scott Jurek. While Fitness+ helps subscribers stay active, Apple Card is designed with our customers' financial health in mind. For the second year in a row, Apple Card has been ranked highest in customer satisfaction for midsized credit card issuers by J.D. Power. And our users' favorite Apple Card benefit just got even better with the upcoming addition of a new high-yield savings account to help them save and grow their daily cash rewards. Turning to retail. Last month, our team members welcomed customers to the all-new Apple Jamsil in South Korea. And through today at Apple Creative Studios, we partnered with non-profits in cities around the world to help young diverse creatives pursue their passions and connect with local mentors. And our retail teams have done exceptional work, helping customers explore our latest products and features. As we approach the holiday season with our product lineup set, I'd like to share my gratitude to our retail, AppleCare and channel teams for the work they are doing to support customers. At Apple, we're proud of the ways we are able to help customers be productive, get healthy, stay safe and unlock their creative potential. We also understand we have important responsibilities to the communities we serve. That's why we continue to invest in education, racial equity and justice and the environment. And we are making important progress toward a more inclusive and diverse workforce. Through our Community Education Initiative, we're working alongside more than 150 partners to help students around the world learn new science and technology skills. This summer, we joined with community partners to support coding academies across the United States from Code Academy in Nashville to One Summer Chicago to the Coding 5K Camp for Girls right next door in San Jose. We've also just expanded our racial equity and justice initiative into the UK for the first time. Alongside the South Pink Center, we're helping aspiring creators develop their own voices and position themselves for long-lasting careers. Back in the US, we welcomed a new class of Black, Latino and indigenous entrepreneurs to Apple's second Impact Accelerator. This group of innovators is focused on using green technology to mitigate the effects of climate change and serve communities most affected by it. At Apple, we care deeply about protecting the planet for future generations. To that end, in support of our 2030 environmental goals, we have asked all of our suppliers to become carbon-neutral across their entire Apple-related footprint by the end of the decade. We are also providing them with resources based on what we learned achieving net-zero carbon in our own global operations. Across our entire product lineup, we also continue to source more materials through recycling while taking less from the Earth. Every iPhone 14 is made with 100% recycled rare-earth elements in all magnets, including those used in MagSafe. And in a first for Apple Watch and iPad, we're using recycled gold in the plating of multiple printed circuit boards in our newest devices. While we're working to reduce the footprint of our hardware, we're making changes to our software to be more environmentally-friendly with the soon-to-be released Clean Energy charging feature for iPhone. Our 2030 goal is a reflection of our relentless focus on the future at Apple. The world continues to be unpredictable as old challenges evolve and new ones emerge. What remains constant is the ability of our teams to create great products, services and experiences while being a force for good in the world. Whatever challenges lie ahead in the new year, we're moving forward, as we always have, investing for the long-term to deliver incredible innovations for our customers like only Apple can. And now,

Maestri: Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone. We are very pleased to report record financial results for the September quarter that capped another record fiscal year for Apple despite a challenging and volatile macroeconomic backdrop. We reached a September quarter revenue record of $90.1 billion, up 8% year-over-year despite over 600 basis points of negative foreign exchange impact, with new September quarter records in the Americas, Europe, Greater China and rest of Asia Pacific. Importantly, in constant currency, we grew nicely in each of our geographic segments, with strong double-digit growth outside the US. Products revenue was $71 billion, up 9% over last year despite FX headwinds and a record for the September quarter. And it was a September quarter revenue record for iPhone and Wearables, Home and Accessories and an all-time revenue record for Mac. Overall, our installed base of active devices continue to grow nicely. It reached an all-time high for all major product categories and geographic segments at the end of the quarter, thanks to extremely strong customer satisfaction and loyalty and a high number of customers that are new to our products. Our Services set a September quarter revenue record of $19.2 billion, up 5% over a year ago despite over 600 basis points of negative impact from foreign exchange. We reached September quarter revenue records in the Americas, Europe, Greater China and rest of Asia Pacific and also in many Services categories, including all-time revenue records for cloud services and payment services. Company gross margin was a September quarter record at 42.3%. It was down 100 basis points from last quarter due to unfavorable foreign exchange and a different mix, partially offset by leverage. Products gross margin was 34.6%, up 10 basis points sequentially, with improved leverage and favorable mix partially offset by foreign exchange. Services gross margin was 70.5%, down 100 basis points sequentially, primarily due to foreign exchange. Net income of $20.7 billion, diluted earnings per share of $1.29 and operating cash flow of $24.1 billion were all September quarter records. Let me now get into more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue grew 10% year-over-year to a September quarter record of $42.6 billion, despite significant foreign exchange headwinds. We set September quarter records in the vast majority of markets we track, and our performance was particularly impressive in several large emerging markets, with India setting a new all-time revenue record and Thailand, Vietnam, Indonesia and Mexico more than doubling year-over-year. Thanks to our strong iPhone lineup, we set a quarterly record for upgraders and grew switchers double digits. This level of sales performance, along with unmatched customer loyalty, drove the active installed base of iPhones to a new all-time high across all geographic segments. And the latest survey of US consumers from 451 Research indicates iPhone customer satisfaction of 98%. It was a great quarter for Mac. We achieved an all-time revenue record of $11.5 billion, up 25% year-over-year, despite significant FX headwinds. There were three key items that helped drive this performance. First, we benefited from the launch of our new MacBook Air and MacBook Pro powered by the M2 chip. Second, we were able to satisfy pent-up demand that carried forward from the significant supply constraints we faced during the June quarter. Third, as our supply position improved, we were able to fill the channel. Importantly, our investment in the category has attracted both upgraders and customers new to Mac and helped our installed base reach an all-time high. In fact, we set a quarterly record for upgraders, while nearly half of customers buying Macs during the quarter were new to the device. iPad revenue was $7.2 billion, down 13% year-over-year due to significant negative foreign exchange and a challenging compare due to the launch of new iPads a year ago. Despite this, the iPad installed base reached a new all-time high, thanks to incredible customer loyalty and a high number of new customers. In fact, over half of the customers who purchased iPads during the quarter were new to the product. Wearables, Home and Accessories revenue was $9.7 billion, growing 10% year-over-year, driven by the launch of Apple Watch and new AirPods Pro. This level of safe performance along with very strong new tool rates, drove our installed base of devices in the category to a new all-time record. For instance, two-thirds of customers purchasing an Apple Watch during the quarter were new to the product. Moving to Services, as I mentioned, we set a September quarter record in aggregate and in most geographic segments, generating $19.2 billion in revenue in spite of very large foreign exchange headwinds. It is important to remember, that we achieved double-digit constant currency growth in Services on top of growing 26% during the September quarter a year ago. However, certain services were impacted by macroeconomic headwinds, including foreign exchange. Digital advertising and gaming are areas where we've seen some softness. Throughout the quarter, we continued to observe several trends that reflect the strength of our ecosystem and our long-term opportunity in the category. First, our continued installed base growth across each geographic segment and each major product category represents a great foundation for future expansion of our ecosystem. Second, we saw increased customer engagement with our Services during the quarter. Both our transacting accounts and paid accounts grew double digits year-over-year, each setting a new all-time record. The percentage of accounts that pay for our services continues to increase, and we still see plenty of opportunity ahead of us. Third, paid subscriptions showed very strong growth. We now have more than 900 million paid subscriptions across the Services on our platform, up more than 155 million during the last 12 months alone and double what we had just three years ago. We continue investing in new content and features, across our service offerings. For example, we added several popular sports titles to Apple Arcade. We're also excited about our global partnership with Major League Soccer, where starting next season, fans can stream every single MLS match through the Apple TV app. This momentum helped us achieve over $78 billion in Services revenue during fiscal 2022, a new record and up 14% year-over-year. We continue to invest confidently and believe strongly in the long-term potential of our Services business, which is already the size of a Fortune 50 business on its own, and has nearly doubled during the last four years. It was not only a record year for Services but also for our entire company. During the past four quarters, we grew our business by 8% or $29 billion, reaching more than $394 billion of revenue. We grew diluted earnings per share by 9% and generated over $111 billion of free cash flow, up 20% year-over-year. It was also a strong year for our enterprise business, as we set new annual records for iPhone, iPad and Mac during fiscal 2022 and grew strong double-digits year-over-year as our devices and services continue to help more-and-more companies empower their employees and serve their customers. For instance, Ford Manufacturing employees are using iPad and iPhone to help further improve the quality of its game-changing Ford F-150 Lightning electric trucks. iPhone's powerful A-series chip and advanced camera systems, along with third-party iOS apps, are enabling Ford to automate the visual quality inspection process in real-time to help address issues before they impact customers. And Cisco expanded its Macs as a choice program and is now offering it to all its employees to help attract and retain top talent. And when given this choice, employees have chosen Macs twice as often as other options. In addition, many enterprise customers are taking advantage of the high residual value of our products and simple trade-in process to standardize the refresh cycles for their fleets of Apple devices. This allows employees to upgrade to the latest devices regularly while making it highly predictable and cost effective for the business. Let me now turn to our cash position. Our business continues to generate very strong cash flow, which enabled us to return over $29 billion to shareholders during the September quarter. This included $3.7 billion in dividends and equivalents and $25.2 billion through open market repurchases of 160 million Apple shares. We ended the quarter with $169 billion in cash and marketable securities. We repaid $2.8 billion in maturing debt and decreased commercial paper by $1 billion while issuing $5.5 billion of new debt, leaving us with total debt of $120 billion. As a result, net cash was $49 billion at the end of the quarter as we continue to make progress toward our goal of becoming net cash neutral over time. As we move ahead into the December quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Tejas referred to at the beginning of the call. Given the continued uncertainty around the world in the near term, we are not providing revenue guidance but we are sharing some directional insights based on the assumption that the macroeconomic outlook and COVID-related impacts to our business do not worsen from what we are projecting today for the current quarter. Overall, we believe total company year-over-year revenue performance will decelerate during the December quarter as compared to the September quarter for a number of reasons. First, we expect nearly 10 percentage points of negative year-over-year impact from foreign exchange. Second, on Mac, in addition to increasing FX headwinds, we have a very challenging compare against last year, which had the benefit of the launch and associated channel fill of our newly redesigned MacBook Pro with M1. Therefore, we expect Mac revenue to decline substantially year-over-year during the December quarter. Specifically on Services, we expect to grow but to be impacted by the macroeconomic environment increasingly affecting foreign exchange, digital advertising and gaming. We expect gross margin to be between 42.5% and 43.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $14.7 billion and $14.9 billion. We expect OI&E to be around negative $300 million, excluding any potential impact from the mark-to-market of minority investments and our tax rate to be around 16.5%. Finally, today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.23 per share of common stock, payable on November 10, 2022, to shareholders of record as of

Woodring: Hey, guys, thanks very much for taking my questions. I have two as well. Maybe if we could just start. Luca, we saw quite the divergence in iPad and Mac performance this quarter. Both were relatively constrained from a supply perspective. So maybe can you just elaborate on some of the most impacted -- important factors that contributed to kind of the divergence in performance and whether after we get through the December quarter, those can reverse or normalize? And then I have a follow-up. A –

Cook: Yeah, Erik, it's Tim. I'll take your question. On – if you look at the Mac, the Mac, it was the best quarter we've ever had in the history of the company. It was helped by the product launch of the MacBook Air with M2. It was helped that in the previous quarter, in the June quarter, if you remember, we lost output from the factory for a significant portion of the quarter. And so we had a backlog exiting our Q3 headed into Q4. We were able to satisfy all of that demand during Q4 and filled the channel for the Mac. And so that led to an incredible Mac quarter. If you look at iPad, iPad had sort of the opposite happening from a launch point of view. The comp from a year ago, we launched iPads in September. We launched iPads this year in October. The other point to remember is that the iPad Pro had just launched before the quarter started in the year-ago quarter so it was our first full quarter of iPad Pro. So it was an exceptionally strong iPad quarter a year ago, and the launches were really key to that performance.

Woodring: Okay, that's helpful. Thank you, Tim. And then maybe, Luca, if I were just to ask you, obviously, Tejas at the beginning of the call talked about the 14-week quarter. Maybe can you just elaborate a little bit on how you think that 14-week quarter impacts different line items, whether it's products or certain segments within the product business or the Services stand-alone? Just where we should see that 14-week quarter provide a bit more of a tailwind versus maybe not have an impact at all?

Bollin: Okay. And then, another item. Any preliminary thoughts around capital intensity into fiscal 2023? Last couple of years, CapEx has been relatively stable. Can you talk to the big constituents of the CapEx figure and maybe any moving pieces and how we could think about that to 2023?

Maestri: Yes, Ben. So when we look at our CapEx, as you correctly said, I mean, we've been fairly stable, and I think our capital intensity is really very good. We have three major buckets in CapEx for the company. We have certain dedicated tools for the manufacturing facilities. We had some spend around data centers, and we have spend around our office facilities around the world. We obviously monitor all of them.

Nealy: Hi, thanks very much. Just wanted to see if you could give us a sense for what drove the Wearables result and the strength there this quarter. Was it from the maybe strong iPhone attach rates or the new products that you have available that were announced this quarter, or maybe you're still getting some benefit from customers that are more willing to come into the store now and try things on versus the pandemic when that was kind of shut down?

Cook: Yes. I would just say that all three of the reasons that I gave were key in achieving the 25%. The M2 MacBook Air, the launch of the new product, the -- satisfying the back orders from the previous quarter and then filling the channel, all of those were key contributors.

Suva: Thank you and it's great to see that you talked about your suppliers going carbon-neutral, something -- a small statement I really took to heart. Thank you. My question is on the Services. Could it possibly be impacted more by FX than product, meaning the Jim Suva family has Apple One and TV+ and all that, and we pay typically on annual, but then when we go into the store to buy new Watches and iPad, the price is adjusted more quickly. So could it be that Services growth was impacted a little bit more by FX and down the road, we could see growth reaccelerate, or am I just reading too much into the FX impact that could be different from Services versus product?

Maestri: Jim, it's Luca. No, you're right. Obviously, the FX impact on our business depends on the geographic mix of the sales that we do. And so yes, it can be -- Services and products can have slightly different effects on foreign exchange. And so, if we look at our Services business in constant currency, we would have grown double digits. And so we're very pleased with that. As I mentioned, there were some areas that we could see some softness in digital advertising. Of course, you know that part, and gaming on the App Store was affected. But we were very happy with what we saw in terms of the behavior of our customers with the engagement with Services. And I mentioned a number of things during the prepared remarks, the fact that, obviously, that installed base is growing, that's a positive and it's a great foundation for the future. We are seeing more transacting accounts and more paid accounts, they're both growing double digits. Paid accounts are growing faster than transacting accounts, so the penetration of paid accounts is increasing. We have a great subscription business, 900 million paid subs now on the platform and growing very fast. We doubled in 3 years. So when we look at all those dynamics, that's the part that is really interesting to us because we really believe that the engine for Services growth is there and foreign exchange is a temporary thing and – but the fundamentals are very good.

Daryanani: Thanks for taking my question. I have 2 as well. The first 1 really is around the iPhone trajectory. There's been a fair amount of focus in terms of what's going to happen to iPhone demand, given the macro worries. It would be really helpful to understand though, given the strength you're seeing, where do you think channel inventory is for iPhones today versus where it would be from a historical perspective? And do you see the channel getting to an optimal level by end of December quarter? Because evenly right now given the lead time data, it looks like your revenue trajectory in iPhones is more driven by the supply you have versus demand.

Cook: Yes. If you look at where we ended, Amit, in the September quarter, we exited below our target inventory range on iPhone and that's -- that in and of itself is not too unusual in the quarter. We start the ramp and demand is robust and so forth. And so I wouldn't call it that abnormal from the past. Q – : Got it. And then I guess, Tim, you folks have been talking about digital advertising a fair bit over the last few quarters, I think. Is there any metrics, any vectors you can talk about kind of to give us a sense of how big those businesses or what vectors are you focused on? And really, if you could talk about, do you think Apple can build an advertising business at scale without sacrificing consumer privacy?

Cook: So our -- first and foremost, we focus on privacy and so we would not do anything that stepped away from that. We feel that privacy is a basic fundamental human right, and so that's sort of the lens that we look at it under. Our specific advertising business is not large and relative to others and so forth. But we don't release the exact numbers on it, but it's clearly not large.

Kumar: Yeah. Hey, thanks guys, First of all, fellows congratulations on stellar performance. There's a lot of large-cap companies that are getting ripped around, so we appreciate the steady cadence here. Tim, I wanted to ask you about inflation pressures and labor problems here in the US and globally. And maybe talk about what steps can Apple take to mitigate those? And maybe Luca, on that end, FX is becoming a pretty significant headwind. I was curious what -- if at all, if there's anything that can be done to mitigate that.

Cook: I'll let Luca talk about FX. In terms of the people piece, we're focused on taking care of our teams and offering them the best benefits and best compensation so that we can empower them to do the best work of their lives. And so that's what we're focused on in terms of our teams. In terms of inflation, there's clearly wage inflation. There's inflation related to logistics as well. If you compare it to pre-pandemic kind of levels, that has not returned to pre pandemic levels by any means. And there's certain silicon components that are -- have inflationary pressure as well. And so that's not an all-inclusive list of where we see it, but it gives you some ingredients of where we see inflation pressure. And we've obviously taken that into consideration in the gross margin guidance that

Maestri: Yes. And on foreign exchange, you're right. I mean, it's obviously a very significant factor that is affecting our results, both revenue and gross margin. What do we do about situation like this, one where we have a very strong dollar? Of course, we hedge our exposures. We try to hedge them in as many places as possible around the world. For example, I think we've been probably the first company that started hedging our exposure in China several years ago. There may be a few currency, small ones, where we don't hedge because the cost is prohibitive or the market is not there. But in general, we tend to hedge because it gives us significant level of margin stability. Obviously, over time, that protection reduces because the hedges roll over and we need to buy new contracts. But that's the primary tool that we use to offset some of the FX pressure. Of course, when we launch new products, in particular, we look at the FX situation. And in some cases, for example, customers in international markets had to -- they saw some price increases when we launched the new products, which is not something that, for example, US customers have seen. And that's unfortunately the situation that we're in right now with the strong dollar. So that's the way we try to deal with that. I have to say that one of the things that we've really appreciated the most during the quarter was the fact that in spite of this very strong dollar and the difficult FX environment, we have seen very strong performance in many international markets, particularly some very large emerging markets where even in reported currencies, so in US dollars, we're seeing very strong double-digit growth in places like India, Indonesia, Mexico, Vietnam, many places where we've done incredibly well. And obviously, in local currency, those growth rates are even higher. It's important for us to look at how these markets perform in local currency because it really gives us a good sense for the customer response to our products, the engagement with our ecosystem and in general, the strength of the brand. And I have to say, in that respect, we feel very, very good about the progress that we're making in a lot of markets around the world.

Maestri: No, I wouldn't say that because those are percentages. So yeah, no, the 10 points wouldn't be different. 13 or 14 weeks would be the same.

Cook: Thank you, Tejas. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining us. Today, we're reporting revenue of $117.2 billion for the December quarter. We set all-time revenue records in a number of markets, including Canada, Indonesia, Mexico, Spain, Turkey and Vietnam, along with quarterly records in Brazil and India. As a result of a challenging environment, our revenue was down 5% year-over-year. But I'm proud of the way we have navigated circumstances, seen and unforeseen, over the past several years, and I remain incredibly confident in our team and our mission and in the work we do every day. Let me discuss the 3 factors that impacted our revenue performance during the quarter. The first was foreign exchange headwinds, which had a nearly 800 basis point impact. On a constant currency basis, we grew year-over-year and would have grown in the vast majority of the markets we track. The second factor, which we described in a November 6 update was COVID-19-related challenges, which significantly impacted the supply of iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max and lasted through most of December. Because of these constraints, we had significantly less iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max supply than we planned, causing ship times to extend far beyond what we had anticipated. As we always have every step of the way throughout the pandemic, we continued to prioritize people and worked with our suppliers to ensure the health and safety of every worker. Production is now back where we want it to be. The third factor was a challenging macroeconomic environment as the world continues to face unprecedented circumstances, from inflation to war in Eastern Europe, to the enduring impacts of the pandemic. And we know that Apple is not immune to it. But whatever conditions we face, our approach is always the same. We are thoughtful and deliberate. We manage for the long term. We adapt quickly to circumstances outside our control while delivering with excellence in the things we can. We invest in innovation, in people and in the positive difference we can make in the world. And we do it all to provide our customers with technology that will enrich their lives and help unlock their full creative potential. It's a wonderful thing to be a part of, and it's so rewarding for all of us at Apple when we hear how much our customers are loving what we create. Let me talk now about what we saw across our product categories. Starting with iPhone. Revenue came in at $65.8 billion for the quarter, down 8% year-over-year. However, on a constant currency basis, iPhone revenue was roughly flat. Our customers continue to rave about the astounding camera capabilities and unprecedented battery life and the groundbreaking suite of health and safety features. The iPhone 14 lineup pushes the limits of what users can do with a smartphone. During the quarter, Mac revenue came in at $7.7 billion, which was in line with what we had expected. We had a difficult compare because this time last year, we had the extremely successful launch of the redesigned M1 MacBook Pros. We also faced a challenging macroeconomic environment and foreign exchange headwinds. We remain confident in and focused on the long-term opportunity for Mac. Just last month, we introduced new MacBook Pro models powered by our latest developments in Apple silicon, M2 Pro and M2 Max. These chips enable unprecedented performance and do so with less energy, which is not only good for the environment but gives the newest MacBook Pro the longest battery life ever in a Mac. We also introduced the M2-powered Mac mini, which will supercharge productivity for users of all kinds and leave them stunned by just how powerful a Mac mini can be. During the quarter, iPad revenue grew 30% to a total of $9.4 billion. The very strong growth was due in part to a favorable compare to the December quarter a year ago when we experienced significant supply constraints. Customers continue to praise our new lineup for its versatility, whether it's the new iPad Pro now powered by the M2 or the newly designed iPad 10th Generation with its stunning liquid retina display and beautiful colors. Revenue for Wearables, Home and Accessories was $13.5 billion, which was down 8% year-over-year driven by foreign exchange headwinds and a challenging macroeconomic environment. We remain excited about the long-term opportunity in the category. As an example, a few weeks ago, we announced the next-generation HomePod, which is an indispensable addition to the smart home. This powerful smart speaker relies on advanced computational audio to produce an incredible listening experience. We're also helping users make their homes safer with sound recognition. This feature, arriving later this spring, allows HomePod to send a notification directly to a user's iPhone if a smoke or carbon monoxide alarm sound is identified. We continue to hear wide praise for Apple Watch Series 8 and Apple Watch Ultra, which has set a new standard for what's possible with a wearable. From a whole host of health and safety features to incredible new capabilities for extreme athletes, there is something for everyone in these amazing products. Customers are excited about some phenomenal new features we've made available across many of our products as well. One of the highlights is emergency SOS via satellite, which launched for iPhone 14 customers in the U.S. and Canada in November and for customers in France, Germany, Ireland and the U.K. in December. This is a feature we hope our users will never need, but it is incredibly heartening to get e-mails from people describing the life-saving impact our new safety features have had on them. We're always looking for new ways to empower people to create and collaborate. In December, we released Freeform, a brand-new app that lets users take their ideas wherever they want, anywhere they are, all while collaborating in real time. Freeform has already received praise from reviewers for its flexibility and simplicity as it works seamlessly across iPhone, iPad and Mac. Today, we are very excited to announce that we've achieved a truly incredible milestone. Thanks to our deep commitment to innovation, incredible customer loyalty and satisfaction and a large number of switchers, we now have more than 2 billion active devices as part of our growing installed base, double what it was just 7 years ago. This is an incredible testament to our products and services and the strength of our ecosystem. We set an all-time revenue record of $20.8 billion in services, which was better than what we had expected. We achieved double-digit revenue growth from App Store subscriptions and set all-time revenue records across a number of categories, including cloud and payment services. All told, Apple now has more than 935 million paid subscriptions. Apple has also just begun a historic 10-year partnership with Major League Soccer. Just yesterday, we launched MLS Season Pass, which will give fans in more than 100 countries access to every live MLS regular season game as well as the playoffs and MLS Cup, all with no blackouts. And while we're providing more content to sports fans than ever before, Apple TV+ continues to showcase powerful characters and moving storytelling. We were thrilled to celebrate the holidays alongside our Apple TV+ subscribers with the hit movie Spirited. And we're delighted to see how much people are enjoying new and returning series like Shrinking, Slow Horses and Truth Be Told. And we have some great upcoming movies in Sharper and Tetris, along with Emmy Award winner Ted Lasso returning this spring. During the quarter, we made some great updates to Fitness+ as well, expanding our catalog of more than 3,500 workouts and meditations to include a new kickboxing category and a new sleep theme for meditations. Our latest artist spotlight series features the music of the incomparable Beyonce, and we're excited to take a stroll with guests appearing on our fifth season of Time to Walk. And we continue to build on our decades-long commitment to helping small businesses thrive when we announced Apple Business Connect. This new tool gives business owners even more control over how billions of people see and engage with their products and services every day. Businesses of all sizes can now customize key information for users across Apple Maps, Messages, Wallet, Siri and other apps. Meanwhile, in retail, we celebrated 25 years of the Apple online store and also opened Apple Pacific Centre in Vancouver and Apple American Dream in New Jersey. And I'm grateful to all the teams who helped our customers throughout the busy holiday season. At Apple, we spend a lot of time focused on creating an unparalleled experience for our customers and every product and service that we offer. We're also just as dedicated to leading with our values in everything we do. As part of that work, we strengthened our deep commitment to privacy and security, giving users 3 new tools to protect their most sensitive data : iMessage contact key verification, security keys for Apple ID and advanced data protection for iCloud. At Apple, we feel a deep sense of responsibility to leave the world better than we found it. We're also a year closer to 2030, and we were ever focused on the environmental commitments we set out for the end of the decade. As an example, the latest Mac mini and MacBook Pro models all use 100% recycled aluminum in the enclosure and recycled rare earth elements in all magnets. And in a first for HomePod, we're using 100% recycled gold in the plating of multiple printed circuit boards. In honor of Black History Month, we released the Black Unity collection, including the Special Edition Apple Watch Black Unity Sport Loop, a new matching watch face and iPhone wallpaper. Through our racial, equity and justice initiative, we're expanding our support of 5 organizations focused on lifting up communities of color through technology. And we are committed as ever to building on our progress around inclusion and diversity. During the quarter, we also announced that since the inception of our Giving program 11 years ago, we've donated more than $880 million to humanitarian efforts, disaster relief, childhood education and more. And over the last 16 years through our partnership with (RED), Apple-supported grants have helped more than 11 million people get the care and support services they need. As we look ahead in 2023, we are excited about the year to come. At Apple, we are always looking forward, always focused on the next challenge, always determined to do great things with unmatched creativity and unrivaled innovation. And that makes me more confident about the future of

Maestri: Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone. As Tim mentioned, revenue for the December quarter was $117.2 billion, down 5% from last year. A number of factors had a significant impact on our results. First, we faced a very difficult foreign exchange environment, which affected our performance by nearly 800 basis points. In other words, we grew revenue on a constant currency basis. And in fact, we did so in the vast majority of markets. Second, the macroeconomic environment this past quarter was markedly more challenging than 12 months ago. Third, we experienced significant supply shortages for iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max in November and through December. On the other hand, we had the positive impact of the 14th week in the quarter that Tejas just mentioned at the beginning of the call. Products revenue was $96.4 billion, down 8% from last year due to the factors I just called out. At the same time, however, our installed base of active devices grew double digits and achieved all-time records in each geographic segment and in each major product category. We're proud to now have over 2 billion active devices in our installed base. This continued growth in the installed base is due to extremely strong levels of customer satisfaction and loyalty and a high number of customers who are new to our products. The installed base growth also helped our services set an all-time revenue record of $20.8 billion, up 6% over a year ago. We achieved this new milestone despite more than 700 basis points of negative impact from foreign exchange. We reached all-time services revenue records in the Americas, Europe and rest of Asia Pacific and a December quarter record in Greater China. We also set records in many Services categories, including all-time revenue records for cloud services, payment services and music and December quarter records for the App Store and AppleCare. Company gross margin was 43%, up 70 basis points from last quarter due to leverage and favorable mix, partially offset by foreign exchange. Products gross margin was 37%, up 240 basis points sequentially. And Services gross margin was 70.8%, up 30 basis points sequentially, both due to the same factors that impacted total company gross margin. Operating expenses of $14.3 billion were significantly below the guidance range we provided at the beginning of the quarter and grew at a slower pace than in the past as we took actions to respond to the current macro environment. Net income was $30 billion. Diluted earnings per share were $1.88, and we generated very strong operating cash flow of $34 billion. Let me now get into more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue was $65.8 billion despite significant foreign exchange headwinds, supply constraints on iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max and a challenging macroeconomic environment. In spite of these circumstances, we set all-time iPhone revenue records in Canada, Italy and Spain, and saw strong growth in several emerging markets, including all-time iPhone revenue records for India and Vietnam. Importantly, the installed base of active iPhones continues to grow nicely and is at an all-time high across all geographic segments. In emerging markets, in particular, the installed base grew double digits, and we had record levels of switchers in India and in Mexico. Our customers continue to love their experience with our products with the latest survey of U.S. consumers from 451 Research indicating customer satisfaction of 98% for the iPhone 14 family. Mac revenue was $7.7 billion, down 29% year-over-year and in line with our expectations. There were 3 key drivers for our Mac results. First, we had a challenging compare against last year's launch of the completely reimagined MacBook Pros, our first notebooks with M1 Pro and M1 Max. Second, we believe that the macro environment impacted our Mac performance. And third, we faced significant foreign exchange headwinds. At the same time, however, the installed base of active Macs reached an all-time high across all geographic segments, and we continue to see very strong upgraded activity to Apple silicon. Customer satisfaction with Mac remains very strong at 96% based on the latest survey of U.S. consumers from 451 Research. iPad revenue was $9.4 billion, up 30% year-over-year despite significant FX headwinds. This performance was driven by 2 key items. First, during the December quarter a year ago, we experienced significant supply constraints, while this year, we had enough supply to meet demand. Second, we launched our new iPad and the iPad Pro powered by the M2 chip during the quarter. The iPad installed base reached a new all-time high, thanks to incredible customer loyalty and a high number of new customers. In fact, over half of the customers who purchased iPads during the quarter were new to the product. Wearables, Home and Accessories revenue was $13.5 billion, down 8% year-over-year. The year-over-year decline was driven by significant FX headwinds and a challenging macroeconomic environment. However, our installed base of devices in the category set a new all-time record thanks to the largest number of customers new to our smartwatch that we've ever had in a given quarter. In fact, nearly 2/3 of customers purchasing an Apple Watch during the quarter were new to the product. Moving to Services. We generated $20.8 billion in revenue, a new all-time record in total and for many Services offerings in spite of a difficult foreign exchange environment, and macroeconomic headwinds impacting certain categories such as digital advertising and mobile gaming. In constant currency, we grew Services revenue double digits on top of growing 24% during the December quarter a year ago. We remain focused on the large long-term opportunity in this category, and we continue to observe several trends that reflect the strength of our ecosystem. For example, we saw increased customer engagement with our Services during the quarter. Both our transacting accounts and paid accounts grew double digits year-over-year, each setting a new all-time record. Paid subscriptions also continued to grow nicely. We now have more than 935 million paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, up more than 150 million during the last 12 months alone and nearly 4x what we had just 5 years ago. And we continue to increase the reach and improve the quality of our offerings. For instance, Apple Pay is now available to millions of merchants in nearly 70 countries and regions. And we saw a record-breaking number of purchases made using Apple Pay globally during the holiday shopping season. Finally, our installed base of over 2 billion active devices represents a great foundation for future expansion of our ecosystem, and it continues to grow even during difficult macroeconomic conditions, which speaks to the exceptionally high levels of customer loyalty and satisfaction and our ability to attract new customers to our platform. The growth is coming from every major product category and geographic segment, with strong double-digit increases in emerging markets such as Brazil, Mexico, India, Indonesia, Thailand and Vietnam. Turning to the enterprise market. we are seeing continued adoption of our Services for business like Apple Business Essentials, AppleCare, Tap to Pay and Apple Financial Services. For example, Mars Incorporated has expanded its use of AppleCare for Enterprise to provide timely device support and assurance for iPads deployed across their manufacturing sites. Meanwhile, HCA Healthcare has leveraged Apple Financial Services to manage the annual refresh of its entire fleet of iPhones. This not only ensures that their staff stay current on the latest Apple technology, but also provides them with significant annual savings in the process. Let me now turn to our capital return program and our cash position. We returned over $25 billion to shareholders during the December quarter as our business continues to generate very strong cash flow. This included $3.8 billion in dividends and equivalents and $19 billion through open market repurchases of 133 million Apple shares. We ended the quarter with $165 billion in cash and marketable securities. We repaid $1.4 billion in maturing debt and decreased commercial paper by $8.2 billion, leaving us with total debt of $111 billion. As a result, net cash was $54 billion at the end of the quarter, and we maintain our goal of becoming net cash-neutral over time. As we move into the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Tejas referred to at the beginning of the call. Given the continued uncertainty around the world in the near term, we are not providing revenue guidance, but we are sharing some directional insights based on the assumption that the macroeconomic outlook and COVID-related impacts to our business do not worsen from what we are projecting today for the current quarter. In total, we expect our March quarter year-over-year revenue performance to be similar to the December quarter. This represents an acceleration in our underlying year-over-year business performance as the December quarter benefited from an extra week. Foreign exchange will continue to be a headwind, and we expect a negative year-over-year impact of 5 percentage points. For Services, we expect revenue to grow year-over-year while continuing to face macroeconomic headwinds in areas such as digital advertising and mobile gaming. For iPhone, we expect our March quarter year-over-year revenue performance to accelerate relative to the December quarter year-over-year revenue performance. For Mac and iPad, we expect revenue for both product categories to decline double digits year-over-year because of challenging compares and macroeconomic headwinds. We expect gross margin to be between 43.5% and 44.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $13.7 billion and $13.9 billion. We expect OI&E to be around negative $100 million, excluding any potential impact from the mark-to-market of minority investments, and our tax rate to be around 16%. Finally, today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.23 per share of common stock payable on February 16, 2023, to shareholders of record as of

Vogt: So Tim, and maybe this is for Luca as well. You talked about the supply chain returning back to normal after a very difficult October, November, but we're still seeing some disruptions across tech products, whether it's enterprise or consumer-facing. How do you think about your supply chain and maybe the levels of inventory or builds that you might need as we go forward to sort of insulate your business from these sort of episodic disruptions? Have you changed your view? And if so, how does that affect ultimately margins and sort of your balance sheet and cash flow items going forward?

Cook: This is Tim, David. From a supply point of view, we did see disruption from early November through most of December. And from a supply chain point of view, we're now at a point where production is what we need it to be. And so the problem is behind us. In terms of going forward in the supply chain, we build our products everywhere. There are component parts coming from many different countries in the world, and the final assembly coming from 3 countries in the world on just iPhone. And so we continue to optimize it. We'll continue to optimize it over time and change it to continue to improve. I think when you sort of zoom out and back up from it, the last 3 years have been a pretty difficult time between COVID and silicon shortages and the like. And I think it's -- I think we have had a very resilient supply chain in the aggregate. In terms of supply for this quarter, which I think was one of your points, I think we're in decent supply on most products for the quarter currently.

Cross: Luca, I wanted to dig a bit more into the commentary on gross margins. The guidance, especially at 43.5% to 44.5%, is obviously quite strong. So I'm wondering what's helping you out there, assume mix and some other things. And then how should we think about what currency and hedge is going to do as we look forward?

Cook: Yes. The installed base is now over 2 billion active devices, as you mentioned. And we set records across each geographic segment and major product category. And so it was a broad-based change. Two -- I'll correct one thing you said, it's up over 150 million year-over-year. The last report we reported to be over 1.85. And so it's 150 million, which we're very proud of. We also saw strong double-digit in several of the emerging markets, which is very important to us. For example, India and Brazil as just 2 examples.

Woodring: And then, Luca, obviously, the December quarter was negatively impacted by the production challenges. Can you just maybe unpackage where channel inventory levels are today kind of across the iPhone broadly? And then what the data that you're seeing so far this quarter is telling you about iPhone demand deferral versus kind of iPhone demand destruction and perhaps pushing some upgrades later into the year rather than into the March quarter?

Cook: Yes. Erik, I'll take that one as well. The channel inventory levels on iPhone, we obviously ended the December quarter below our target range given the supply challenges on iPhone 14 Pro and iPhone 14 Pro Max. But as you think about this, keep in mind that a year ago, we also exited the December quarter below our target inventory range because of supply challenges in the year ago quarter. Not related -- not the same issue, but just as a point. And so that hopefully gives you some flavor of that. In terms of what we're seeing in January, we've included in our color that Luca provided kind of our thinking. It's very hard to estimate the recapture because you have to know exactly what would have happened and how many people bought down. And it takes a while to get that -- to get those reports in during the quarter. And so we've made our best guess at it. In terms of the sizing of the constraint in Q1, what we estimate, although not with precision, is that we would -- I thought we believe iPhone would have grown during the quarter had it not been for the supply shortages.

Rakers: I have two as well, if I can. I guess the first kind of question, just going back on the gross margin line. Pretty good guidance into this March quarter. I'm curious if you unpack that a little bit specific around what you're seeing as far as maybe benefits from component pricing in the guidance, if you're embedding any of that at this point.

Mohan: Tim, you've done a phenomenal job of driving consumer choice towards higher-end products within your portfolio. How would you compare this cycle for iPhones if you were to segment the Pro versus non-Pro models versus the cycles from the past few years? And do you think this move to higher ASPs is sustainable? Or do you think it reverses in a tighter consumer spending environment?

Cook: The Pro has been a -- the 14 Pro and the 14 Pro Max have done extremely well up until the point where we had a supply shortage and couldn't provide them -- couldn't provide the total of the demand. And so it's definitely a strong Pro cycle. I think there's a number of reasons for that, but the most important one is always the product. And I think the innovations and the product speak for themselves. And we feel very good about the product that we announced back in September and are happy to now be at a point where we're shipping to the demand.

Mohan: And Tim, do you think that this move to sort of higher ASPs that has happened over the last few years is sustainable? Or could it sustain in this very tough macro environment that you've cited?

Maestri: Wamsi, it's Luca. Yes, of course, we keep track of that. It's really important for us. Over the last 7 years, as we doubled the installed base, we've seen a growing engagement of our customers on the platform. That happens, first of all, by customers transacting on the platform and then moving to paid accounts. So starting to pay for some of the services. That percentage of paid accounts tends to grow over time. We've seen it in developed markets. We see it in emerging markets. And that is due to some of the reasons that I was explaining earlier, including the fact that we made it easier for our customers to get engaged on the platform. For example, we offer multiple payment methods in many countries. And we've made it easier to explore for more services because we've added a lot of services on the platform over the last 7 years. So to your question, of course, higher engagement means a higher percentage of paid accounts over time.

Suva: Tim and Luca, you both mentioned earlier on the Q&A a little bit about India. I was wondering if we're now entering a situation of even more opportunity because we've exited COVID, we've exited countries with different COVID criteria. We've also seen India build out its higher speed transmissions. And your market is -- shares tremendously underrepresented there. And it appears with the supply chain, you're looking at diversifying kind of operational risk not specific to any country, but just overall. Now you look at potentially opening up stores and stuff. Am I right that, that's the way you look at it is it's even more prime for opportunity now than ever? And once you start opening up stores there, you could just see a complete green shoot of adoptions or any additional commentary on your view on India as now we've navigated COVID and supply chain and so many challenges over the past 2 years?

Cook: Yes. Jim, we actually did fairly well through COVID in India. And I'm even more bullish now on the other side of it, or hopefully, on the other side of it. And that's the reason why we're investing there. We're bringing retail there and bringing the online store there and putting a significant amount of energy there.

Suva: And then as my quick follow-up, you had mentioned that Services, not necessarily specific to India, but Services overall were better than expected. And of course, supply chain was more challenged than expected. So what was the bridge factor of Services being better than expected on upside? Was it like advertising or apps or paid monthly subscriptions? Or what were kind of the things that really surprised you to the upside on Services?

Maestri: It was -- Jim, it's Luca. It's primarily the -- this level of engagement we saw, which then reflects into the, as you said, the paid subscriptions. We saw very good results in our cloud services business in payment services. Music was very strong. So we had a number of categories that set new records, all-time records. And they did a bit better than we were expecting at the beginning of the quarter. And so Tim mentioned that during, I think, his prepared remarks that when you look at it in constant currency, we grew services double digits. And that was on top of a 24% increase a year ago.

Cook: We think there were some impact across the products and in Services. Probably, the ones that we saw the most impact on were Mac and Wearables. You can see that in those numbers.

Sankar: Got it. Got it. Very helpful, Tim. And then just a quick follow-up on the Mac. The PC industry is expecting a decline in PC shipments this year also. How do you think about the Mac relative to kind of like where the PC industry as a whole is expecting the shipments to end up? Is there any color you can give on that?

Cook: The industry is very challenged, as you say. It's -- the industry is contracting. I think from us, though, is -- and I don't know how this year will play out, so I don't want to predict the year. But over the long run, we have a market that is a reasonable-sized market, a big market. And we have low share, and we have a competitive advantage with Apple silicon. And so strategically, I think we're well positioned in the market, albeit

Cook: Thank you, Suhasini. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining us. Today, we're reporting revenue of $94.8 billion for the March quarter, which was better than our expectations. We set an all-time record for Services and a March quarter record for iPhone. We were particularly pleased with the performance we saw in emerging markets and achieved all-time records in Mexico, Indonesia, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and the UAE, as well as a number of March quarter records, including in Brazil, Malaysia and India. This result is a testament, first and foremost to our teams around the world who are engaged every day in the work of bringing new innovations to life. It speaks to the incredible power of Apple products and services to enrich people's lives in indispensable ways. And whether it's in the design lab in Cupertino, or in one of the brand new retail stores in India, I am constantly inspired by the way our people come together to make a real difference in the world. During the March quarter, we continued to face foreign exchange headwinds, which had an impact of more than 500 basis points, as well as ongoing challenges related to the macroeconomic environment. Revenue was down 3% year-over-year as a result, while on a constant currency basis, we grew in total and in the vast majority of the markets we tried. Despite these challenges, we continue to manage for the long term and to push the limits of what's possible, always on behalf of the customers who depend on our products whether it's students exploring new frontiers, developers dreaming up their next big idea, or artists taking their creativity to a whole new level. Let me share how these results showed up across our lineup of products and services. Let's start with iPhone, which set a new March quarter record with revenue of $51.3 billion. The iPhone 14 and 14 plus continue to delight users with their long lasting battery and advanced camera. And our pro users continue to rave about the most powerful camera system ever in an iPhone. This March, we were excited to expand emergency SOS via satellite to six new countries, bringing this important safety feature to even more users. We now offer this vital service in 12 countries, and I'm grateful for every note I've received from around the world about the life saving impact of our safety features. Now let's turn to Mac, which recorded $7.2 billion in revenue for the March quarter in line with our expectations. As we noted during our last call, Mac faced a very difficult compare because of the incredibly successful rollout of our M1 chip throughout the Mac lineup last year. And like our other product lines, Mac is facing some macroeconomic and foreign exchange headwinds as well. That said, the advancements we've made in power efficient performance continue to amaze our users. Our M2 Mac Mini customers are raving about the pro level powerhouse packed into an ultra-compact design, and users are marveling at the power and speed at the heart of every M2 powered MacBook Air and MacBook Pro, which allowed them to sustain even the most demanding workloads. iPad revenue was $6.7 billion, which was also in line with our expectations. Similar to Mac, iPad revenue performance was impacted by macroeconomic challenges, foreign exchange headwinds, and a difficult compare with last year when we launched the M1 powered iPad Air. iPad's versatility continues to be its greatest strength as we're helping students learn on the same family of devices artists use to create their next masterpiece. Across wearables, home and accessories, revenue was $8.8 billion. With its exceptional range of game changing health and safety features, Apple Watch becomes more and more indispensable every day. Apple Watch Ultra is attracting adventures, athletes and everyday users with its breakthrough features built for endurance and exploration. And with summer travel season soon heating up, there's no better companion in the air or on the road than AirPods, the best and most popular headphones in the world. Meanwhile, Services set an all-time record with $20.9 billion in revenue for the March quarter. We achieved all time revenue records across App Store, Apple Music, iCloud and payment services. And now, with more than 975 million paid subscriptions, we're reaching even more people with our lineup of services. Apple TV Plus continues to draw praise from customers and reviewers alike. During the past quarter, fans tuned in to incredible new series like Shrinking and The Big Door Prize and got to welcome Ted Lasso back into their homes for a third season. Movies like Tetris are captivating viewers with many more to come, including Martin Scorsese’s Killers of the Flower Moon later this year. Three years since its launch, Apple TV Plus programming has been celebrated across the globe, with over 1,450 nominations and more than 350 wins. Recently, we were thrilled to cheer on The Boy, the Mole, the Fox and the Horse, which won an Academy Award for best Animated Short Film. The first season of our historic tenure partnership with Major League Soccer is well underway with MLS season pass, we've created the ultimate destination for soccer fans, offering subscribers the ability to watch every match with no blackouts. And with baseball season in full swing, Apple TV Plus subscribers can watch their favorite teams with the return of Friday night baseball. This quarter, we launched Apple Music Classical, a standalone app that gives something special to classical music lovers. Apple Music Classical packs the largest library of classical music on Earth into a thoughtful and intuitive design that strikes all the right notes. Whether you're listening with AirPods or HomePod, the premium sound experience of Apple Music Classical will leave you with a feeling of being front row at the symphony just behind the conductor. In March, we also launched Apple Pay Later designed with users privacy and financial health in mind. Apple Pay Later allows users to split purchases into multiple payments with no interest or fees. And last month, we introduced Apple Card Savings Accounts to give users even more value out of their daily cash Apple Card Benefit. At Apple, our customers are at the center of everything we do. Nowhere is that more evident than retail, where our teams are dedicated to sharing the best of Apple with our customers. And we're constantly innovating to deliver exceptional experiences and meet our customers where they are. In the US, we launch Shop with a specialist over video, a new way for customers to learn about iPhone and find the one that's just right for them. And as I noted earlier, in a milestone for Apple, we just opened our first two Apple stores in India, in Mumbai and Delhi. I was there to see it for myself, and I couldn't have been more delighted by the excitement and enthusiasm of the customers, developers, creators and team members I got to spend time with. I've had the chance to connect with customers and teams all around the world in recent months, so many people shared with me that they were fans of Apple, not just because of the innovations we create, but because of the values that guide us, and that means a great deal to us. We're constantly striving to make a positive difference in people's lives and be a force for progress. We're investing in education to give students the skills they need to shape the future. We're helping to create pathways of opportunity for communities of color through our Racial Equity and justice initiative. And every day we're building an even more inclusive and diverse Apple rooted in our culture of belonging. To better understand how our work intersects with our values, look no further than what we're doing for the environment. We just celebrated Earth Day in April, and during that month, Apple announced that its global manufacturing partners now support over 13 gigawatts of renewable energy, a nearly 30% increase in just the last year. This translates to 17.4 million metric tons of avoided carbon emissions, the equivalent of removing nearly 3.8 million cars from the road. We're all investing up to an additional $200 million in our Restore Fund, which is designed to support innovative, scalable, nature based carbon removal projects, with the goal of removing 1 million metric tons of carbon every year. These are just the latest steps on our journey toward our 2030 goal to be carbon neutral across our supply chain and lifecycle of our devices. At the same time, we're advancing renewable energy across our supply chain, we're also sourcing more recycled materials in our products. Last month, we announced our plans to have all Apple design batteries include 100% certified recycled cobalt by 2025, and we remain committed to one day using only recycled and renewable materials in our products. We have a deep sense of mission here at Apple. We believe in the power of innovation to build a better world. We are determined to do our best work on behalf of our customers and to give them the tools that can enrich lives. So we will manage for the long term, just as we always have, with our eyes to the horizon, with limitless creativity, and with a deep belief that we can achieve anything we put our minds to.

Maestri: Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone. Revenue for the March quarter was $94.8 billion, down 3% from last year and better than our expectations. Foreign exchange had a negative impact of over five percentage points on our results, in line with what we had expected. On a constant currency basis, our revenue grew year-over-year in total and in the majority of the markets we track. In addition to the records in emerging markets that Tim mentioned, we also set March quarter records in Australia, Canada, Spain and Switzerland, among others. Products revenue was $73.9 billion, down 5% from last year, due to challenging compares on Mac and iPad. iPhone, however, reached a March quarter revenue record thanks to very strong performance in emerging markets from South Asia and India to Latin America and the Middle East. During the quarter, our installed base of active devices continued to grow at a nice pace thanks to extremely high levels of customer satisfaction and loyalty, and reached an all-time high for all major product categories and geographic segments. Our Services set an all-time revenue record of $20.9 billion, up 5% year-over-year, on top of growing 17% in the March quarter a year ago. We reached an all-time services revenue record in Greater China and March quarter records in Americas, Europe and Rest of Asia Pacific. Company gross margin was 44.3%, up 130 basis points from last quarter, driven by cost savings and favorable mix shift towards services partially offset by leverage. Products gross margin was 36.7%, decreasing 30 basis points sequentially due to seasonal loss of leverage and mix, partially offset by favorable costs. Services gross margin was 71%, up 20 basis points sequentially. Operating expenses of $13.7 billion were at the low end of the guidance range we provided at the beginning of the quarter and continued to decelerate from the December quarter. We are closely managing our spend, but remain focused on long term growth with continued investment in innovation and product development. Net income was $24.2 billion. Diluted earnings per share were a $1.52, unchanged versus last year, and we generated very strong operating cash flow of $28.6 billion. Let me now provide more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue set a March quarter record of $51.3 billion, up 2% year-over-year despite significant foreign exchange headwinds and a challenging macroeconomic environment. We set March quarter records in several developed and emerging markets with India, Indonesia, Turkey and the UAE doubling on a year-over-year basis. Our active installed base of iPhone grew to a new all-time high and was up in all our geographic segments. We are very pleased by the results of the latest survey of US Consumers from 451 Research, which measured customer satisfaction at 99% for the iPhone 14 family. Mac revenue was $7.2 billion, down 31% year-over-year and in line with our expectations. These results were driven by the challenging macroeconomic environment coupled with a difficult compare against last year's launch of the completely reimagined M1 MacBook Pros. Despite this, the installed base of active Macs reached an all-time high across all geographic segments and we continue to see strong upgraded activity to Apple silicon. Also, the latest survey of US Consumers from 451 Research reported customer satisfaction at 96% for Mac. iPad generated $6.7 billion in revenue, down 13% year-over-year and in line with our expectations. This performance was due to two key factors, a tough compare against the launch of iPad Air powered by the M1 chip in the year ago quarter and headwinds from the macroeconomic environment. The iPad installed base reached a new all-time high in all geographic segments thanks to exceptional customer loyalty and a high number of new customers. In fact, over half of the customers who purchased iPads during the quarter were new to the product. Wearables, home and accessories revenue was $8.8 billion, down 1% year-over-year as the category experienced the impact from the macroeconomic environment. However, we did set March quarter records both in the US and in Greater China. We continue to see strength in our Watch installed base, which set a new all-time record, thanks to very high customer loyalty and new two rates, nearly two thirds of customers purchasing an Apple Watch during the quarter were new to the product. Moving to Services, we reached a new all-time revenue record of $20.9 billion. And in addition to the all-time records Tim mentioned earlier, we set March quarter records for advertising Apple Care and Video. Despite these records, as we saw in recent quarters, certain services offerings such as digital advertising and mobile gaming continue to be affected by the current macroeconomic environment. Stepping back, however, the continued growth in Services is the reflection of our ecosystem strength and the positive momentum we are seeing across several key metrics. First, our growing installed base of over 2 billion active devices represents a great foundation for future expansion of our ecosystem. We continue to grow across every major product category and geographic segment, thanks to very high levels of customer loyalty and satisfaction. Second, we saw increased customer engagement with our services during the quarter. Both our transacting accounts and paid accounts grew double digits year-over-year, each setting a new all-time record. Third, paid subscriptions showed strong growth. We now have more than $975 million paid subscriptions across the Services on our platform, up 150 million during the last 12 months and nearly double the number of paid subscriptions we had only three years ago. And finally, we continue to improve the breadth and the quality of our current services offerings from new content on Apple TV Plus to great new features available in Apple Pay and Apple Music, which we believe our customers will love. Turning to the enterprise market, we see business customers continuing to invest in the Apple platform to drive higher employee productivity and satisfaction. In Brazil, Boticario Group, the world's largest cosmetics franchiser, originally starting with iPhone, 12 employees manage operations across a network of retail stores, franchisees and resellers. As it continues to digitize its business, Boticario has chosen to move all software development in house and adopted Mac as the standard device for all of their developer teams across the world. In small business, we see an increasing number of customers relying on Apple hardware, software and services to power their businesses forward, from accepting payments on iPhone, to tracking inventory on Mac or iPad, to managing employee devices with Apple Business Essentials. As we celebrate National Small Business week here in the US, we are proud to continue supporting the small business community. Let me now turn to our cash position and capital return program. We ended the quarter with over $166 billion in cash and marketable securities. We repaid $2.3 billion in maturing debt and increased commercial paper by about $300 million, leaving us with total debt of $110 billion. As a result, net cash was $57 billion at the end of the quarter. During the March quarter, we returned over $23 billion to shareholders, including $3.7 billion in dividends and equivalents and $19.1 billion through open market repurchases of $129 million Apple shares. Given the continued confidence we have in our business now and into the future, today our Board has authorized an additional $90 billion for share repurchases as we maintain our goal of getting to net cash neutral over time. We're also raising our dividend by 4% to $0.24 a share, and we continue to plan for annual increases in the dividend going forward. As we move ahead into the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward looking information that Suhasini referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect our June quarter year-over-year revenue performance to be similar to the March quarter, assuming that the macroeconomic outlook does not worsen from what we are projecting today for the current quarter. Foreign exchange will continue to be a headwind and we expect a negative year-over-year impact of nearly four percentage points. For Services, we expect our June quarter year-over-year revenue growth to be similar to the March quarter, while continuing to face macroeconomic headwinds in areas such as digital advertising and mobile gaming. We expect gross margin to be between 44% and 44.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $13.6 billion and $13.8 billion. We expect OINE to be around negative $250 million excluding any potential impact from the mark-to-market of minority investments and our tax rate to be around 16%. Finally reflecting the dividend increase I mentioned earlier, today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.24 per share of common stock payable on May 18, 2023, to shareholders of record as on

Woodring: Hey, good afternoon, guys. Thank you so much for taking the questions. Tim, maybe if we start with you. If we go back to the December quarter and the shutdowns, the production shutdowns around the time I think the question a lot of us were asking was how should we think about the deferral of demand versus destruction of demand? March quarter was quite strong 2% year-over-year iPhone growth. And so as we sit here in May, how have you seen that customers that weren't able to purchase during the December quarter behave? Meaning, are you seeing that they deferred purchases to March and June? Could they be deferring purchases to later and hopes of buying a new iPhone? Just how should maybe we think about the cadence of that and then

Cook: Yes, thanks for the question, Shannon. As you know, we don't comment on product roadmaps. I do think it's very important to be deliberate and thoughtful in how you approach these things. And there's a number of issues that need to be sorted, as is being talked about in a number of different places. But the potential is certainly very interesting. And we've obviously made enormous progress integrating AI and machine learning throughout our ecosystem and we weaved it into products and features for many years as you probably know. You can see that in things like fall detection and crash detection and ECG, these things are not only great features, they're saving people's lives out there. And so it's absolutely remarkable. And so we are, we view AI as huge and we'll continue weaving it in our products on a very thoughtful basis.

Cross: Okay. Thank you. And then can you talk a bit about your shift of manufacturing and diversification of manufacturing footprint? I'm curious. Obviously, you have a very tight network in China. So how is it going to move to some of these other regions? Are you seeing any impact from a margin perspective or just any thoughts you have on what you've seen as you started to shift more and more outside of China? Whether it's growth or it's actual production?

Cook: Our supply chain is truly global and we're investing all over the world. We're investing in the US. We're investing in a number of other countries as well. So we make products everywhere. We'll continue to invest everywhere, and we'll continue to look for ways to optimize the supply chain based on what we learn each and every day and week and so forth, to ensure that we can deliver the best products and services for our customers. If you sort of step back and look at how we've performed over the last three years on the supply chain, despite this parade of horribles, if you will, between the pandemic and the chip shortages and macroeconomic kind of factors, the supply chain has been incredibly resilient, and we feel good about what we are and what our plans are.

Mohan: Yes. Thank you. Tim, you had called out on December quarter earnings that Pro models were significantly constrained. Do you see a catch up on the Pro model specifically in the March quarter? And was the mix better than typical? And do you see that mix renormalizing here in the June quarter? And maybe you can comment on the channel inventory levels as well for i

Cook: Sure. It's hard to quantify Wamsi, but we do believe we did recapture some amount of sales in the March quarter, and obviously we had to set the channel at the right levels. And we're very comfortable with the channel inventory that we have on a forward basis.

Mohan: Okay. Thanks, Tim. And Tim, as a follow up, you launched so many services around Apple Pay most recently, you mentioned Buy Now Pay Later high yield savings account. Where do you see the expansion and the payments ecosystem over time? And do you look at the payments ecosystem as a standalone revenue opportunity? Or is it more about making the devices even more inseparable from us?

Cook: What we're trying to do with our payments work is that sort of like we've done on the watch, where we're focused on helping people live a healthier day on our financial products. We're helping people have a better financial health and so things like the Apple Card and the fact that it has no fees, like the savings account, which has, as you mentioned, it's very attractive yield. So we're trying to help our users, but these things have to stand on their own, obviously. But we're very user focused, and so we're listening to them at what things provide them pinch points and orchestrate our roadmaps around that. Buy Now Pay Later is another one that we've just gotten out of the shoot. But on the savings account specifically, we are very pleased with the initial response on it.

Vogt: Great. Thanks for taking my question. Tim, I just wanted to go back to maybe kind of dig into the restocking of inventory in the channel versus what we're hearing from a demand perspective that appears to be a little bit softer in the March quarter from some of your larger carriers. That exhibited relatively weak upgrade rates. So I just want to kind of get a sense for where you're seeing demand signals today vis-à-vis how you were thinking about it maybe a month ago or even three months ago. And is there sort of an acceleration in demand or any sort of signals that you might want to share with us at this point?

Cook: I don't want to go into what we're seeing in Q3 other than the guidance that Luca has given. But for Q2, I think you're probably referencing primarily US carriers. And if you look at our geographic distribution of our performance, it was lower in the Americas, which is primarily predominantly the United States. And a part of that is, I believe it's macroeconomic. A part is that there was more promotional activity in the year ago quarter. And so I think that's what you're seeing there, where our results were really stellar during this quarter, was really in the emerging markets, and we couldn't be prouder of the results that we had there.

Vogt: Great. That's helpful. And then just quickly on Services, are you seeing anything in terms of consumers behavior other than sort of the macro that you mentioned and tough comps on digital advertising and mobile gaming? Are you seeing users of all the disparate services change and what they're using and how they're using it and time spent with an Apple Service? Now that we're technically, hopefully fully past COVID, with China almost fully reopened, I'm just trying to get a sense for how user or consumer behavior has changed over the last three to six months.

Ho: Great. Thanks for taking my question. I was hoping you can talk about the linearity of the March quarter and perhaps the first four and a half weeks of the current quarter. It looks like things are slowing down quite a bit elsewhere, but if my math is right, your fiscal third quarter guidance implied product revenue will be a little bit lower than seasonal average on a sequential basis, any color would be helpful.

Maestri: We said that we expect our performance during the June quarter at the revenue level to be similar to the one that we just reported for the March quarter. Keep in mind, we always have differences in the launch timing across our products, and also that especially over the last few years, we've seen a certain amount of supply disruptions. Sometimes it was COVID related, sometimes it was related to specific component shortages. Just to remind you, in the June quarter a year ago, at the full quarter impact of the launch for both of the iPhone SE and the iPad Air, which leads to a more difficult compare.

Ho: Okay, that's helpful. Maybe a quick follow up. You talk about Apple Pay Later. How has the feedback been so far? And how do you expect the adoption of that service over the next few quarters?

Cook: Harsh, I think we can do better on everything. And so I wouldn't just point to one of them. If you look at the number of active devices and the growth of active devices, I think, our services are underpenetrated in a number of different ways. And so the way that

Cook: Thank you, Saori. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining us. Today, Apple is reporting revenue of $81.8 billion for the June quarter, better than our expectations. We continued to see strong results in emerging markets, driven by robust sales of iPhone with June quarter total revenue records in India, Indonesia, Mexico, the Philippines, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and the UAE. We set June quarter records in a number of other countries as well, including France, the Netherlands and Austria. And we set an all-time revenue record in Services driven by more than $1 billion paid subscriptions. We continued to face an uneven macroeconomic environment, including nearly 4 percentage points of foreign exchange headwinds. On a constant currency basis, we grew compared to the prior year's quarter in aggregate and in the majority of markets we track. We continue to manage deliberately and innovate relentlessly, and we are driven by the sense of possibility those efforts inspire. To that end, before I turn to the quarter in more detail, I want to take a moment to acknowledge the unprecedented innovations we were proud to announce at our Worldwide Developers Conference. In addition to extraordinary new Macs and incredible updates to our software platforms, we had the chance to introduce the world to spatial computing. We were so pleased to share the revolutionary Apple Vision Pro with the world, a bold new product unlike anything else created before. Apple Vision Pro is a marvel of engineering, built on decades of innovation only possible at Apple. It is the most advanced personal electronic device ever created, and we've been thrilled by the reaction from press, analysts, developers and content creators who've had the chance to try it. We can't wait to get it into customers' hands early next year. Now let me share more with you on our June quarter results beginning with iPhone. iPhone revenue came in at $39.7 billion for the quarter, down 2% from the year ago quarter's record performance. On a constant currency basis, iPhone revenue grew, and we had a June quarter record for switchers, reflecting the popularity of the iPhone lineup. iPhone 14 customers continue to praise the exceptional battery life and essential health and safety features, while iPhone 14 Plus users are loving the new larger screen size. And with Dynamic Island, Always-On display and the most powerful camera system ever in an iPhone, the iPhone 14 Pro lineup is our best ever. Turning to Mac. We recorded $6.8 billion in revenue, down 7% year-over-year. We are proud to have completed the transition of our entire Mac lineup to run exclusively on Apple silicon. We are also excited to have introduced the new 15-inch MacBook Air during the quarter, the world's best 15-inch laptop and one of the best Macs we've ever made. And we launched 2 new powerhouses in computing, Mac Studio with M2 Max and M2 Ultra and Mac Pro with M2 Ultra, which are the most powerful Macs we've ever made. iPad revenue was $5.8 billion for the June quarter, down 20% year-over-year, in part due to a difficult compare because of the timing of the iPad Air launch last year. Customers are loving iPad's versatility and exceptional value. There was a great deal of excitement from creatives when we brought Final Cut Pro and Logic Pro to iPad this spring. And with the back-to-school season in full swing, iPad has the power to help students tackle the toughest assignments. Across Wearables, Home and Accessories, revenue was $8.3 billion, up 2% year-over-year and in line with our expectations. Packed with features to empower users to live a healthier life, Apple Watch and Apple Watch Ultra continue to help people take the next step on their wellness journey. As I mentioned earlier, last quarter, we held our biggest and most exciting WWDC yet. We were thrilled to welcome developers from across the globe to Apple Park, both in person and virtually, and to share some stunning new announcements with the world. In addition to Apple Vision Pro and the new Macs that we introduced, we had the chance to reveal some truly remarkable new innovations to our software platforms. From exciting new features like Live Voicemail and StandBy in iOS 17, to new tools for users to work, play and personalize their experience in macOS Sonoma and iPadOS 17, to a fresh design and new workout capabilities in watchOS 10, there's so much coming later this year to empower users to get more out of their devices, and we think they're going to instantly love these new features. It was also an exciting quarter for Services where revenue reached $21.2 billion and saw a sequential acceleration to an 8% year-over-year increase, better than we expected. We set an all-time revenue record for total services and in a number of categories, including video, AppleCare, cloud and payment services. Since we introduced Apple Pay almost a decade ago, customers have been loving how easy it is to make purchases online, in apps and in stores. We're also pleased to see Apple Card build on the success of Apple Pay. Designed with our users' financial health in mind, Apple Card has become one of the most successful credit card programs in the U.S. with award-winning customer satisfaction. And this spring, we introduced a new high-yield savings account for Apple Card customers, which has become incredibly popular, with customers already making more than $10 billion in deposits. Meanwhile, Apple TV+ continues to provide a spectacular showcase of imaginative storytelling. Recently, fans welcomed new series like Hijack and Silo as well as returning fan favorites like Foundation and The Afterparty. In the few years since its launch, Apple TV+ has earned more than 1,500 nominations and 370 wins. That includes the 54 Emmy Award nominations across 13 titles that Apple TV+ received last month. It's also been an exciting time for sports on Apple TV+. Soccer legend Lionel Messi made his debut with Major League Soccer last month, and fans all over the world tuned in with MLS Season Pass. We are excited about our MLS partnership, and we're thrilled to see Messi suiting up with Inter Miami. And just in time for summer concert season, Apple Music launched new discovery features celebrating live music, including venue guides in Apple Maps and set lists from tours of major artists. These new features and others join a lineup of updates coming later this year to make Services more powerful, more useful and more fun than ever. Everything we do is in service of our customers, and retail is where we bring the best of Apple. During the quarter, we opened the Apple Store online in Vietnam, and we're excited to connect with more customers there. We also redesigned our first-ever Apple Store located in Tysons Corner, Northern Virginia, with inclusive, innovative and sustainable design enhancements. We opened a beautiful new store beneath our new London headquarters in the historic Battersea Power Station. And the performance of the stores we opened in India this spring exceeded our initial expectations. With every product we create, every feature we develop and every interaction we share with our customers, we lead with the values we stand for. We believe in creating technology that serves all of humanity, which is why accessibility has always been a core value that we embed in everything we do. On Global Accessibility Awareness Day, we unveiled some extraordinary new tools for cognitive, vision, hearing and mobile accessibility that will be available later this year, including Assistive Access, which distills apps to their most essential features, and Personal Voice, which allows users to create a synthesized voice that sounds just like them. Building technology and service of our customers also means protecting their privacy, which we believe is a fundamental human right. That's why we were pleased to announce major updates to Safari Private Browsing, Communication Safety and Lockdown Mode to further safeguard our users. And as part of our efforts to build a better world, we announced that we've more than doubled our initial commitment to our Racial Equity and Justice Initiative to more than $200 million. We will continue to do our part to support education, economic empowerment and criminal justice reform work. And while supporting efforts to advance equity and opportunity, we continue to build a culture of belonging at Apple and a workforce that reflects the communities we serve. Through our environmental work, we're making strides in our commitment to leave the world better than we found it. Last month, Apple joined with global nonprofit Acumen in a new effort to improve livelihoods in India through clean energy innovation, and we are as committed as ever to our Apple 2030 goal to be carbon neutral across our entire supply chain and the life cycle of our products. We've long held that education is the great equalizer. With that in mind, we're expanding Apple Learning Coach, a free professional learning program that teaches educators how to get more out of Apple technology in the classroom. Today, we welcome more than 1,900 educators across the U.S. to the program. By the end of the year, we'll offer Apple Learning Coach in 12 more countries. As we're connecting with teachers, we're also celebrating the graduations of students at our app developer academies around the world. From Detroit, to Naples, to Riyadh and more, we're excited to watch these talented developers embark on careers in coding and find ways to make a positive difference in their communities. Apple remains a champion of innovation, a company fueled by boundless creativity, driven by a deep sense of mission and guided by the unshakable belief that a great idea can change the world. Looking ahead, we'll continue to manage for the long term, always pushing the limits of what's possible and always putting the customer at the center of everything we do.

Maestri: Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone. Revenue for the June quarter was $81.8 billion, down 1% from last year and better than our expectations despite nearly 4 percentage points of negative impact from foreign exchange. On a constant currency basis, our revenue grew year-over-year in total and in the majority of the markets we track. We set June quarter records in both Europe and Greater China and continue to see strong performance across our emerging markets driven by iPhone. Products revenue was $60.6 billion, down 4% from last year, as we faced FX headwinds and an uneven macroeconomic environment. However, our installed base reached an all-time high across all geographic segments, driven by a June quarter record for iPhone switchers and high new-to rates in Mac, iPad and Watch, coupled with very high levels of customer satisfaction and loyalty. Our Services revenue set an all-time record of $21.2 billion, up 8% year-over-year and grew double digits in constant currency. Our performance was strong around the world as we reach all-time Services revenue records in Americas and Europe and June quarter records in Greater China and rest of Asia Pacific. Company gross margin was 44.5%, a record level for the June quarter and up 20 basis points sequentially, driven by cost savings and favorable mix shift towards Services, partially offset by a seasonal loss of leverage. Products gross margin was 35.4%, down 130 basis points from last quarter due to seasonal loss of leverage and mix, partially offset by favorable costs. Services gross margin was 70.5%, decreasing 50 basis points sequentially. Operating expenses of $13.4 billion were below the low end of the guidance range we provided at the beginning of the quarter and decelerated from the March quarter. We continue to take a deliberate approach in managing our spend with strong focus on innovation and new product development. The results of these actions delivered net income of $19.9 billion, diluted earnings per share of $1.26, up 5% versus last year, and very strong operating cash flow of $26.4 billion. Let me now provide more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue was $39.7 billion, down 2% year-over-year but grew on a constant currency basis. We set revenue records in several markets around the world, including an all-time record in India and June quarter records in Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, Indonesia, the Philippines, Italy, the Netherlands and the U.K. Our iPhone active installed base grew to a new all-time high, thanks to a June quarter record in switchers. This is a testament to our extremely high levels of customer satisfaction, which 451 Research recently measured at 98% for the iPhone 14 family in the U.S. Mac generated $6.8 billion in revenue, down 7% year-over-year. We continue to invest in our Mac portfolio. And this past quarter, we were pleased to complete the transition to Apple silicon for the entire lineup. This transition has driven both strong upgrade activity and a high number of new customers. In fact, almost half of Mac buyers during the quarter were new to the product. We also saw reported customer satisfaction of 96% for Mac in the U.S. iPad revenue was $5.8 billion, down 20% year-over-year and in line with our expectations. These results were driven by a difficult compare against the full quarter impact of the iPad Air launch in the prior year. At the same time, we continue to attract a large number of new customers to the iPad installed base with over half of the customers who purchased iPads during the quarter being new to the product. And the latest reports from 451 Research indicate customer satisfaction of 96% in the U.S. Wearables, Home and Accessories revenue was $8.3 billion, up 2% year-over-year, with a June quarter record in Greater China and strong performance in several emerging markets. We continue to see Apple Watch expand its reach with about 2/3 of customers purchasing an Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product. And this is combined with very high levels of customer satisfaction, which was recently reported at 98% in the United States. Moving on to Services. We reached a new all-time revenue record of $21.2 billion with year-over-year growth accelerating sequentially to 8% and up double digits in constant currency. In addition to the all-time records Tim mentioned earlier, we also set June quarter records for advertising, App Store and Music. We are very pleased with our performance in Services, which is a direct reflection of our ecosystem's strength. First, our installed base of over 2 billion active devices continues to grow at a nice pace and establishes a solid foundation for the future expansion of our ecosystem. Second, we see increased customer engagement with our services. Both our transacting accounts and paid accounts grew double digits year-over-year, each reaching a new all-time high. Third, our paid subscriptions showed strong growth. This past quarter, we reached an important milestone and passed 1 billion paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, up 150 million during the last 12 months and nearly double the number of paid subscriptions we had only 3 years ago. And finally, we continue to improve the breadth and the quality of our current services. From 20 new games on Apple Arcade, to brand-new content on Apple TV+, to the launch of our high-yield savings account with Apple Card, our customers are loving these enhanced offerings. Turning to the enterprise market. Our customers are leveraging Apple products every day to help improve productivity and attract talent. Blackstone, a global investment management firm, is expanding its Apple footprint from their corporate iPhone fleet to now offering the MacBook Air powered by M2 to all of their corporate employees and portfolio companies. Gilead, a leading biopharmaceutical company, has deployed thousands of iPads globally to their sales team. Over the last 6 months, they have also doubled their Mac user base by making MacBook Air available to more employees with a focus on user experience and strong security. Let me now turn to our cash position and capital return program. We ended the quarter with over $166 billion in cash and marketable securities. We repaid $7.5 billion in maturing debt while issuing $5.2 billion of new debt and increasing commercial paper by $2 billion, leaving us with total debt of $109 billion. As a result, net cash was $57 billion at the end of the quarter. During the quarter, we returned over $24 billion to shareholders, including $3.8 billion in dividends and equivalents and $18 billion through open market repurchases of 103 million Apple shares. We continue to believe there is great value in our stock and maintain our target of reaching a net cash neutral position over time. As we move ahead into the September quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Saori referred to at the beginning of the call. We expect our September quarter year-over-year revenue performance to be similar to the June quarter, assuming that the macroeconomic outlook doesn't worsen from what we are projecting today for the current quarter. Foreign exchange will continue to be a headwind, and we expect a negative year-over-year revenue impact of over 2 percentage points. We expect iPhone and Services year-over-year performance to accelerate from the June quarter. Also, we expect the revenue for both Mac and iPad to decline by double digits year-over-year due to difficult compares, particularly on the Mac. For both products, we experienced supply disruptions from factory shutdowns in the June quarter a year ago and were able to fulfill significant pent-up demand in the year ago September quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 44% and 45%. We expect OpEx to be between $13.5 billion and $13.7 billion. We expect OI&E to be around negative $250 million, excluding any potential impact from the mark-to-market of minority investments, and our tax rate to be around 16%. Finally, today, our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.24 per share of common stock payable on August 17, 2023, to shareholders of record as of

Cross: Tim, you mentioned -- and actually, Luca, too, you mentioned an uneven macro environment during the quarter several times on the call. I'm wondering if you can talk on a geographic basis about some of the trends you're seeing in i

Mohan: Luca, can you just give us a little more color around the guidance? Your overall revenue performance, you called out similar. Obviously, you absorbed a higher FX impact this quarter versus your guide. And you also noted Services acceleration. So just wondering, when you think about that comment on iPhone acceleration, is that on a reported basis? Is that constant currency basis? And is there something that's changing in terms of seasonality perhaps for you that is causing not as much step-up in product revenue as typical on a sequential basis?

Maestri: Yes. So all our comments are in reported currency, not in constant currency in relation to the outlook. And we said acceleration sequentially for iPhone and for Services. But we're also pointing out -- and this is where I think, Wamsi, you're referring to some seasonality issues. We also said that for Mac and iPad, we expect to decline double digits. And the reason for that is that we have a very difficult compare versus last year. You remember that a year ago, in the June quarter, we had factory shutdowns for both Mac and iPad. And so we were able to fill the pent-up demand from those shutdowns during the September quarter. So an unusual level of activity that we had a year ago. And so now, obviously, the compare is difficult. So we expect both iPad and Mac to be down double digits, which offset the acceleration that

Mohan: Okay. And Tim, I was wondering if you could update us on what percent of iPhones are sold on some type of installment basis now versus full upfront payment on a global basis. And maybe some thoughts on if you expect similar promotional activity from carriers, especially in the U.S., that seem to be grappling with a lot of cash flow issues this particular year.

Maestri: Wamsi, I'll take it. We've done a really good job over the last few years with affordability programs around the world directly in our direct channel and with our partners around the world. The majority of iPhones, at this point, are sold using some kind of a program, trade-ins, installments, some kind of financing. And that percentage, which again, it's well over 50%, is very similar across developed and emerging markets. We want to do more of that because we think it really helps reduce the affordability threshold for our products. And we think it is also one of the reasons why our product mix has been very strong during the last couple of cycles.

Vogt: I just wanted to follow up on 2 points that both you, Tim, and Luca made about growth and maybe commodities. So just to be clear, I know you're talking about an acceleration in iPhone, but the comp is about 2 points easier from FX. So I just want to understand, is that on a like-for-like basis, excluding the currency improvement of about 2 points from the June quarter to the September quarter? And from a commodity perspective, I know last quarter, you talked about buying a lot of inventory at favorable prices, which was an incredibly smart strategy. Where do you sit today? And what's sort of the timing or the duration of that commodity sort of backlog that you have as we think about next quarter and the subsequent quarters? How far does that get you out into the future from this favorable cost dynamic?

Maestri: Let me start again. I just want to be clear about the guidance, the outlook guidance that we provided. We're referring entirely to reported numbers. So they take into account the fact that we have a slight improvement in foreign exchange. So when I talk about similar performance, I refer to reported performance in the June quarter and then the reported performance in the September quarter. And again, we expect, on a reported basis, our iPhone performance to accelerate, our Services performance to accelerate, and iPad and Mac to decline double digits. On the commodity front, as I mentioned, the environment is favorable. We always make sure that we take advantage of the opportunities that are available in the market, and we will continue to do that going forward.

Kumar: I have one for Luca and then later on one for Tim. So Luca, for some time now, for many quarters, you've had a currency headwind or foreign exchange currency headwind. It's conceivable that as rates start to come down, hopefully next year that the dollar weakens. Could you take us through the mechanism of how that will work on your revenues and for your costs?

Maestri: So we tend -- we try to hedge our foreign exchange exposures because we think it's the right approach for the company in terms of minimizing the volatility that necessarily happens from the movements of currencies. We cannot effectively hedge every single exposure around the world because in some cases, it is not possible. In other cases, it is prohibitively expensive. But we tend to cover all the major currency payers that we have. About 60% of our business is outside the United States. So it's a very, very large and, I would say, very effective hedging program. And so we set up these hedges, and they tend to roll over very regularly. And then we replace them with new hedges at the new spot rate. So the impact that we're going to have on revenue and cost will depend on where the spot rates are at different points in time. And therefore, because of the way the program works, tends to be a bit of a lag in both directions as the foreign exchange moves over time.

Kumar: Understood. Very helpful. And for Tim, Tim, historically, for the last many years, carriers in at least the U.S., which I think is your largest market for iPhone, have had programs to help folks upgrade, whether they give a cash rebate or you bring in your old phone, something like that. I was curious, as you get into your peak December quarter, if you're aware of these programs are in place. And the reason why I'm asking is I think earlier, you mentioned that more than 50% of your phones are sold through some kind of program.

Ho: Okay. That's fair. Maybe as a follow-up is related to -- you talked about WWDC, where you actually introduced Vision Pro there. Clearly, a very big announcement there. How should we think about the revenue ramp related to the Vision Pro? Is there any catalysts that we should be thinking about that will drive an inflection of that product?

Cook: Yes. There's enormous excitement around the Vision Pro. We're excited internally. Everybody that's been through the demos are blown away, whether you're talking about press or analysts or developers. We are now shipping units to the developer community for them to begin working on their apps. And we're looking forward to shipping early next year. And so we could not be more excited with that. I'm using the product daily. And so we're not going to forecast revenues and so forth on the call today, but we're very excited about it.

Sankar: I have two of them as well. Number one, on iPhone, Tim, you mentioned about the record number of switchers in the quarter. I'm kind of curious how to think about, given the weak macro and consumer spending, how is the replacement cycle for iPhone? Is it similar, longer, shorter versus prior years? And can you talk a little bit about the demand linearity of iPhone during the June quarter?

Cook: Yes. The -- if you look at retail, it's a key part of our go-to-market approach, and it will be so key and such a competitive advantage with Vision Pro. It will give us the opportunity to launch a new product and demo to many people in the stores. And so it has many advantages in it. And we continue to roll out more stores. As you know, we just opened 2 in India last quarter. We're -- there's still a lot of countries out there that don't have Apple stores that we would like to go into. And so we continue to see it as a key part of how we go to market and love the experience that we can provide customers there.

Cook: Thank you, Suhasini. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining the call. Today, Apple is reporting revenue of $89.5 billion for the September quarter. We achieved an all-time revenue record in India, as well as September quarter records in several countries, including Brazil, Canada, France, Indonesia, Mexico, the Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, the UAE, Vietnam and more. iPhone revenue came in ahead of our expectations, setting a September quarter record, as well as quarterly records in many markets, including China mainland, Latin America, the Middle-East, South Asia and an all-time record in India. In services, we set an all-time revenue record with double-digit growth and ahead of our expectations. During the September quarter, we continue to face an uneven macroeconomic environment, including foreign exchange headwinds and we've navigated these challenges by following the same principles that have always guided us. We've continued to invest in the future and manage for the long-term. We've adapted continuously to circumstances beyond our control, while being thoughtful and deliberate on spending. And we've carved a path of groundbreaking innovations and delivered with excellence every step of the way. That includes Apple Vision Pro, which has gotten such an amazing response from developers who are currently creating truly incredible apps. We're excited to get this magical product in the hands of customers early next year. Now let me share more about our products, beginning with iPhone. iPhone revenue came in at $43.8 billion, 3% higher than a year ago, and a new record for the September quarter. This fall, we were thrilled to debut the iPhone 15 lineup. The all-new iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus feature a gorgeous design, powerful cameras and the intuitive Dynamic Island. Powered by the industry-leading A17 Pro, our iPhone15 Pro lineup has a beautiful strong and durable titanium design and the best iPhone camera system ever, including a 5X Telephoto lens on iPhone 15 Pro Max. Customers are loving the entire iPhone 15 family and reviews have been off the charts. In Mac, revenue came in at $7.6 billion, down 34% year-over-year from the prior year's record quarter. This was due to challenging market conditions, as well as difficult compares against the supply disruptions and subsequent demand recapture we experienced a year ago. Earlier this week, we were excited to unveil the next generation of Apple silicon with our incredible family of M3 chips, M3; M3 Pro; and M3 Max. We're continuing to innovate at a tremendous pace. And our industry-leading lineup of personal computers just got even better. The new MacBook Pro lineup brings our most advanced technology to our Pro users, while iMac, the world's best-selling all-in-one, just got faster and more capable. And according to the latest data from Student Monitor, nearly two out of three college students chose a Mac. We couldn't be more excited about the future. Turning to iPad. Revenue for the September quarter was $6.4 billion. iPad sets the gold standard for tablets and our competitors are unable to match the iPad experience that is enabled by our seamless integration of hardware and software. iPad is also our most versatile product. In classrooms around the world, it's helping educators bring lessons to life, while giving students a window into the world around them. And in artist workshops, design studios and everywhere else, creative minds come together, iPad supercharges the creative process, helping users take their ideas farther than they ever could before. Across wearables, home and accessories, revenue came in at $9.3 billion. Apple Watch has become essential in our lives and this is our best Apple Watch lineup ever. With Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2, we're giving people even more tools to stay safe and live healthy, active lives. With the new double tap gesture, users can easily control Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2 using just one hand and without touching the display. It feels like magic. Our latest Apple Watch lineup also includes our first-ever carbon-neutral products, a significant achievement of innovation and determination. Apple's unique ecosystem of hardware, software, and services delivers an unparalleled user experience. During the quarter, we also had the chance to introduce a range of exciting new updates to our software that will allow users to get even more out of their devices. Whether it's personalized contact posters and new face time features in iOS 17, new tools for users to make their experience their own in macOS Sonoma and iPadOS 17, or a bold new look in watchOS 10 that lets you see and do more, faster than ever, Apple is delivering an even better, richer experience that users are loving. Services revenue set an all-time record of $22.3 billion, a 16% year-over-year increase. We achieved all-time revenue records across App Store, advertising, AppleCare, iCloud, payment services, and video, as well as the September quarter revenue record in Apple Music. Whether subscribers are waking up to headlines on Apple News+, getting their morning workout in with Fitness+, feeling the beat with Apple Music on their way to work or school, or unwinding at the end of the day with Apple Arcade, we have so many different services to enrich their day. Apple TV+ continues to delight customers as well, with new and returning shows like the Morning Show, Lessons in Chemistry and Monarch. We're telling impactful stories that inspire imagination and stir the soul. Making movies that make a difference is also at the heart of Apple TV+ and we were thrilled to produce Martin Scorsese's Killers of the Flower Moon, a powerful work of cinema that premiered in theaters around the world last month. We're proud to say that since launch, just over four years ago, Apple TV+ has earned nearly 1,600 award nominations and nearly 400 wins. We also offer subscribers an unprecedented live sports experience with MLS Season Pass. We couldn't be more pleased with how our partnership with Major League Soccer has gone in its first year. Subscriptions to MLS Season Pass have exceeded our expectations and we're excited to continue that momentum next year. With the playoffs now underway, we can't wait to see who takes home MLS cup. And nowhere does the magic of Apple come alive more than it does in our stores. Over the past year, we've continued to find ways to connect with even more customers. We welcomed customers to our first-ever retail locations in India. We also opened doors to new stores in Korea, China and the UK and expanded the Apple store online to Vietnam and Chile. And we have another store opening in China this week. In September, I joined our team at Apple Fifth Avenue on launch day and the energy and excitement were unbelievable. Every time we connect with the customer, we're reminded why we do what we do. From simple joys of creating and sharing memories, to lifesaving features like emergency SoS via satellite, we're enriching lives in ways large and small. And whether we're working to safeguard user privacy, ensure technology made by Apple is accessible for everyone, or build an even more inclusive workplace, we're determined to lead with our values. Our environmental efforts are a great example of the intersection of our work and our values. Across Apple, we act on a simple premise, the best products in the world should be the best products for the world. We've made our environmental work a central focus of our innovation, because we feel a responsibility to leave the world better than we found it and because we know that climate change cannot be stopped, unless everyone steps up and does their part. Our first ever carbon-neutral products represent a major milestone and we're going to go even further. We plan to make every product across our lineup carbon neutral by the end of the decade. And we're not doing it alone. Over 300 of our suppliers have committed to using a 100% clean energy for Apple production by 2030. We also continue to invest in entrepreneurs who are lighting the way for a greener, more equitable future. Through our third impact accelerator class, we're proud to support a new class of diverse innovators on the cutting edge of green technology and clean energy. Apple is always looking forward, driven in equal measure by a sense a possibility and a deep belief in our purpose. We're motivated by the meaningful difference we can make for our customers and keenly determined to push the limits of technology even further. And that's why I'm so confident that

Maestri: Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone. Revenue for the September quarter was $89.5 billion, down less than 1% from last year. Foreign exchange had a negative impact of over 2 percentage points. And on a constant-currency basis, our revenue grew year-over-year in total, and in each geographic segment. We set a September quarter record in the Americas and saw strong performance across our emerging markets, where both iPhone and Services grew double digits. Products revenue was $67.2 billion, down 5% from last year, due to very challenging compares on both Mac and iPad, which I will discuss in more detail later on. At the same time, we reached a September quarter record on iPhone, driven by strength in emerging markets. Our total installed-base of active devices reached an all-time high across all products and all geographic segments, thanks to our high levels of customer satisfaction and many new customers joining our ecosystem. Our Services revenue set an all-time record of $22.3 billion, up 16% year-over-year, with growth accelerating sequentially from the June quarter. Our performance in Services were broad based, as we reached all-time revenue records in the Americas, Europe and rest of Asia-Pacific and a September quarter record in Greater China. We also set new records in every Services category. Company gross margin set a September quarter record at 45.2%, up 70 basis points sequentially, driven by leverage and favorable mix, partially offset by foreign exchange. Products gross margin was 36.6%, up 120 basis points sequentially, also driven by leverage and mix, partially offset by foreign exchange. Services gross margin was 70.9%, up 40 basis points from last quarter due to a different mix. Operating expenses of $13.5 billion were at the low end of the guidance range we provided, up 2% year-over-year. Net income was $23 billion, diluted earnings per share was $1.46, up 13% versus last year and a September quarter record, and operating cash flow was strong at $21.6 billion. Let me now provide more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue was $43.8 billion, up 3% year-over-year and a new September quarter record. We had strong performance in several markets, including an all-time record in India as September quarter records in Canada, Latin America, the Middle East, and South Asia . Our iPhone active installed base grew to a new all-time high and fiscal 2023 was another record year for switches. We continue to see extremely high levels of customer satisfaction which 451 Research recently measured at 98% in the U.S. Mac revenue was $7.6 billion, down 34% year-over-year, driven by challenging market conditions and compounded by a difficult compare in our own business, whereby last year we experienced supply disruptions from factory shutdowns in the June quarter and were subsequently able to fulfill significant pent-up demand during the September quarter. We also had a difference in launch timing with the MacBook Air launching earlier this year in the June quarter compared to the September quarter last year. We have great confidence in our Mac lineup and are excited about the recently announced iMac and MacBook Pro powered by our M3 chips. Our installed base is at an all-time high and half of Mac buyers during the quarter were new to the product, driven by MacBook Air. Also, we saw reported customer satisfaction of 97% for Mac in the U.S. iPad generated $6.4 billion in revenue, down 10% year-over-year. Similar to Mac, these results were a function of a difficult compare from the supply disruptions in the June quarter a year ago and the subsequent fulfillment of pent-up demand in the September quarter. iPad continues to attract a large number of new customers to the installed base with over half of the customers who purchase iPads during the quarter being new to the product and the latest reports from 451 Research indicate customer satisfaction of 98% in the U.S. Wearables, Home and Accessories revenue was $9.3 billion, down 3% year-over-year. We had a September quarter record in Europe and we saw strong performance in several emerging markets around the world. Apple Watch continues to expand its reach with nearly two-thirds of customers purchasing Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product and customer satisfaction for the Watch was recently measured at 97% in the U.S. Services had a great quarter. We reached a new all-time revenue record of $22.3 billion, up 16% year-over-year. And we're happy to see growth coming from all categories and every geographic segment, which is a direct result of the strength of our ecosystem. Our installed base of over 2 billion active devices continues to grow at a nice pace and establishes a solid foundation for the future expansion of the ecosystem. And we continue to see increased customer engagement with our Services. Both transacting accounts and paid accounts grew double-digits year-over-year, each reaching a new all-time high. Also our paid subscriptions showed strong growth. We have well over 1 billion paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, nearly double the number we had only three years ago. And finally, we continue to improve the breadth and quality of our current services from exciting new content on Apple TV+ and Apple Arcade to additional storage tiers on iCloud. We believe our customers will love this new offering. Turning to enterprise. We are excited to see our business customers in both developed and emerging markets expand their deployment of Apple products and technologies to drive business innovation and employee satisfaction. Starbucks continuously invest in Apple technology to bring the best experience to the customers and employees, including tens of thousands of iPads across all retail stores to help their teams streamline order management, operations and training. In addition, Starbucks recently refreshed over 10,000 Macs to the latest M2-powered MacBook Air for all store managers, enabling them to do their best work and improve productivity. And in Indonesia, popular technology company GoTo is offering Mac as a choice, so that employees can have the best tools to be most productive. Today, more than half of its workforce are already choosing Mac for work. Let me now turn to our cash position and capital return program. We ended the quarter with over $162 billion in cash and marketable securities. We increased commercial paper by $2 billion, leaving us with total debt of $111 billion. As a result, net cash was $51 billion at the end of the quarter. And our goal of becoming net cash-neutral over time remains unchanged. During the quarter, we returned nearly $25 billion to shareholders, including $3.8 billion in dividends and equivalents and $15.5 billion through open market repurchases of 85 million Apple shares. We also began a $5 billion accelerated share repurchase program in August, resulting in the initial delivery and retirement of 22 million shares. Taking a step back, as we close our 2023 fiscal year, our annual revenue was $383 billion. While it was down 3% from the prior year, it grew on a constant-currency basis despite the volatile and uneven macroeconomic environment. Our year-over-year revenue performance improved each quarter as we went through the year, and so did our earnings per share performance, as we reported double-digit EPS growth in the September quarter. We are particularly pleased with our performance in emerging markets with revenue reaching an all-time record in fiscal 2023 and double-digit growth in constant currency. We are expanding our direct presence in these markets from new Apple retail stores in India to online stores in Vietnam and Chile. And we continue to work with our partners to offer a wide range of affordability programs so that we can best serve our customers. We're very excited about the momentum we have in these markets and the opportunity ahead of us. As we move ahead into the December quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Suhasini referred to at the beginning of the call. The color we are providing today assumes that the macroeconomic outlook doesn't worsen from what we are projecting today for the current quarter. Also, on foreign exchange, we expect a negative year-over-year revenue impact of about 1 percentage point. As a reminder, the December quarter this year will last the usual 13 weeks, whereas the December quarter a year ago spanned 14 weeks. For clarity, revenue from the extra week last year added approximately 7 percentage points to the quarter's total revenue. Despite having one less week this year, we expect our December quarter, total company revenue to be similar to last year. We expect iPhone revenue to grow year-over-year on an absolute basis. We also expect to grow after normalizing for both last year's supply disruptions and the one extra week. We expect Mac year-over-year performance to significantly accelerate from the September quarter. We expect the year-over-year revenue performance for both iPad and Wearables, Home and Accessories to decelerate significantly from the September quarter due to a different timing of product launches. On iPad, we launched a new iPad Pro and iPad 10th Generation during the December quarter a year ago. For the Wearable category, last year we had the full December quarter benefit from the launches of the AirPods Pro 2nd Generation, the Watch SE, and the first Watch Ultra. For our Services business, we expect the average revenue per week to grow at a similar strong double-digit rate as it did during the September quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 45% and 46%. We expect OpEx to be between $14.4 billion and $14.6 billion. We expect OI&E to be around negative $200 million, excluding any potential impact from the mark-to-market of minority investments and our tax-rate to be around 16%. Finally, today our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.24 per share of common stock, payable on November 16, 2023, to shareholders of record as of November 13, 2023.

Chandramouli: Thank you, Luca. We ask that you limit yourself to two questions. Operator, may we have the first question, please?

Ng: Great. Thank you. And as a separate follow-up, I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the market conditions on notebooks and desktops, and then any color that you can share regarding the timing of the Mac -- M3 MacBook Pros this year versus the M2 earlier in the calendar year?

Cook: Yeah. We're thrilled to have announced the M3 lineup and get the new MacBook Pro, the new iMac out there. We couldn't be more excited about it. We -- as Luca said, with the lineup that we've got and the compare issue that we don't have during Q1, we anticipate a significant acceleration in the Mac space for Q1. To just repeat a little bit about the circumstances of the performance last quarter, in the year-ago June quarter, we had a factory disruption that lasted several weeks. The pent-up demand that resulted from that was filled in the September quarter, and that made the September quarter not only a record, but a substantial record. And obviously, we're now comparing against that for '23 and so that, I wouldn't look at the negative 34% as representative of the underlying business performance.

Rakers: Yeah. Thanks for taking the question and congratulations on the execution in the quarter. I'm curious, if you could help us characterize what the demand environment you're seeing in China looks like. How has the reception been to the iPhone 15? And kind of similar question to the prior one, how would you characterize the mix within China as you go through this current product cycle?

Cook: Yeah. If you look at how we did in Greater China for the quarter, we came in at, on a revenue basis, minus 2. But one thing to keep in mind here is that the FX impact was nearly 6 points. So we grew in constant currency. And underneath that, if you look at the different -- the categories, iPhone actually set a September quarter record in mainland China. And the -- what pulled down the performance was a combination, largely of Mac and iPad. Services also grew during the quarter and the Mac and iPad suffered from the same issues that the company did with the compare issues to factory disruptions in Q3 that were filled subsequently in Q4 of '22. We had the -- in addition to that, we had the top four selling phones in urban China for last year, and I was -- I just took a trip over there and could not be more excited about the interactions

Rakers: Yeah. And then, as a quick follow-up, I'm curious as we move towards more of an inflationary component pricing environment. Luca, how do we think about that effect? How you're thinking about the gross margin at the product level, as maybe component pricing starts to turn, what's been clearly very favorable over the last several quarters to more of an inflationary environment?

Woodring: Okay, very clear. Thanks. And then, maybe for you and Tim. You guys have been on the leading end of -- edge of innovation across hardware, software, silicon, services. And I'm sure there's plenty of technology in kind of longer-term projects that you're investing in. How should we think about your capital intensity as we look to fiscal year '24, just given over the last few years, CapEx as a percentage of revenue had been relatively low compared to the eight years prior? So should we expect a step-up or kind of similar capital intensity? And what are the more notable moving pieces, if any, that we should be thinking about?

Maestri: Well, the big areas of investment for us are tooling and equipment for manufacturing plants. Our investments in data centers and our investments in our own facilities, both corporate facilities and retail stores. And so, both for the tooling in our plants and our data center investments, we tend to have a bit of a hybrid model where we share some of the investments with our partners and suppliers and so maybe that's why you see sometimes a bit of variability. But over the last few years, we've made all the investments that we needed to make. And obviously, we're planning to make all the investments that we believe are needed and appropriate in order to continue to innovate.

Vogt: Great. Thanks, guys for taking my question. I know you covered China. I want to pivot to the US for a second. Obviously, iPhone and the business looks like it returned to growth in the quarter. But it's still relatively softer kind of where I thought it would be at this point in the cycle and some of the U.S. carriers obviously haven't been that particularly aggressive in promoting upgrades. So just wanted to kind of get a sense, first, what you're seeing from your partners in the U.S. kind of currently and going forward and what do you expect? And then, second, Luca, on the margins, I mean, is it fair to say that the mix in Q1 from a product versus services dynamic is kind of the key driver of the better gross margin guide as a whole relative to, let's say, the December quarter? Or is there anything else? I know you mentioned there's a lot of moving pieces, but is that the primary driver of the uplift in the margin?

Cook: In the September quarter, we set an iPhone record -- revenue record in China and we're very proud of that and we obviously grew. The market predictions that I've seen, we've had the market contracting. And so if that's -- if those are correct, then we gained share last quarter. And so we are very proud of that, I don't know what every quarter will hold. And obviously, we just give a bit of color on the current quarter. But over the long term, I view China as an incredibly important market and

Mohan: Okay. Thanks, Tim. And as a follow-up, you obviously had a great Services quarter and part of your Services business has these licensing relationships with research partners, where you serve a very important distribution function for them. Can you talk about how you think about these relationships and potentially some of the options maybe Apple has to mitigate some of the risks, given some of the scrutiny on with some of the research partners?

Maestri: They are important relationships. And as you know, we don't get into our commercial relationships in the call. I see them as important and we make decisions that are in the best interest of our users or what we feel is in the best interest of our users. And that's kind of what we've done in the past and how we've -- how we'll run the show in the future as well.

Sankar: Yeah. Hi. Thanks for taking the question. I had two of them too. First one, Luca, thanks for the color on gross margin. And when I look at it over the last four quarters, even if on a year-over-year basis revenue declined, the gross margins have improved. And I understand Services definitely helped. I'm just kind of curious, when you look at on a go forward basis, are most of the big step functions and cost reductions like the Mac Silicon conversion, et cetera, that are done or is there more room for margin expansion from here?

Maestri: Well, on the product side, as you know, we -- when we launch new products, the cost structures of those products tend to be higher than the products that they replace. It happens because we are always adding new technologies, new features, and then, we worked through the cost curve over the lifecycle of the product and we tend to get benefits as time goes by. The guidance that we provided for December reflects all that and so we're starting from a better position than a year ago or than, in the past, in general. There are other factors that play a role. For example, the mix of products that we sell. Not every product has the same gross margin profile, and so our guidance, our results are reflective of that. And also, within a specific product category, a lot depends on the kind of models that we sell because they have different margin profiles. I think one of the things that we've done well over the last few years is to offer more affordability solutions to our customers in the form of instalment plans, trading options, and spend -- low-cost financing in general. And what that has accomplished is reduced the affordability threshold for our customers and therefore, they can, buy at the top of our product ranges. That has been a big factor in the reason for our margin expansion. We don't provide guidance or color past the current quarter because there's so many different variables that affect gross margins, but we obviously feel very good about the trajectory that we've had in 2023 and now, the guidance that we provide for the beginning of our fiscal '24. And we need some of these things because, obviously, their foreign exchange environment has been difficult and has been a bit of a drag for us.

Sankar: Got it. Thanks for that, Luca. And then, I have a follow-up for Tim. Obviously, you're seeing amazing momentum in India. I'm just kind of curious how do you look at -- when you look at the India growth opportunity on these hardware units, how to think about ASP relative to that versus like the rest of the geographies? And is there a way to compare or contrast India, growth momentum versus China maybe a decade ago or so at the same point in the rollout of, the share gains in that geography?

Cook: Yeah. It's a great question. We had an all-time revenue record in India. We grew very strong double-digits. It's an incredibly exciting market for us and a major focus of ours. We have low share in a large market, and so it would seem there's a lot of headroom there. The ASPs, I haven't looked at them most recently, but I'm sure that they're lower than the worldwide. But that doesn't bother us at all. It just -- and in terms of the similarity, I would say, each country has its own journey. And I wouldn't want to play the comparison game. But we see an extraordinary market, a lot of people moving into the middle class, distribution is getting better, lots of positives. We put two retail stores there, as you know. They're doing better than we anticipated. It's still early going, but they're off to a good start and

Reitzes: Hey. Thanks a lot. I appreciate the question. Tim, I appreciate all your commentary around China. It was great to kind of hear about the growth potential there, your optimism. I wanted to also ask about the supply chain and where is your priority? Do you have a priority to diversify your supply chain? How do you feel about Apple's supply chain around the world? And in particular, what do you think about further investments in the U.S. as well?

Cook: Our supply chain is truly global, and so we're investing all over the world, including in the United States, we were very focused on advanced manufacturing for the U.S. and have worked on a number of different projects in the U.S., whether that's our venture with Corning on the glass or Face ID module or semiconductors. And so all of these are our advanced manufacturing and I think exactly the kinds of things that the U.S. would be and are very, very good at. We also invested in other regions of the world and we're continually optimizing the chain. And so we -- the moment we learned something that didn't work exactly right, we are tweaking it. And so we're going to continue to do that.

Reitzes: Next one for Luca. Just really quick on the extra week dynamic. There was also last year an issue with the iPhone production, where there was the COVID lockdowns in China. Is it possible to give some color around what that -- I guess, having a normalized supply chain somewhat this year, what that benefit is this year and maybe contrast that with the 7 point hit from the extra week?

Maestri: Yeah. Thanks for the question, Ben. I mentioned during the prepared remarks the extra week is 7 points of revenue. We did have disruptions, supply disruptions last year on the phone, on the 14 Pro and Pro Max in the December quarter a year ago. And when we normalize for those two factors, and I said it during the call, we still expect to grow on iPhone. So you take into account the, the loss of the extra week, you compare it with the supply disruptions that are not going to repeat, hopefully, this year. And when you normalize for those two things, we still expect to grow on i

Maestri: Well, some of the metrics that I mentioned before, obviously, we look at the installed base of active devices. We see, we want to make sure that, the customers that we acquire remain with us and so we have good visibility over that, and we pay a lot of attention to the behavior of the installed base, both by product and by geography. And then, we look at the daily engagement in the ecosystem. So that's why we pay a lot of attention on things like transacting accounts, paid accounts, we want to see if, in fact, we are able to move our customers from a free model to a paid model over time. That's obviously very, very important for us. And so, on this, we keep track of all these things and that's -- and then what we do, because I think it's really important is that over time, we add new services and that, obviously, like, for example, the progress that we've made in payments in recent years, very, very important because we've attracted more and more people that are actually now using additional features on our devices and we are able to monetize that, right. So we take all that into account, we understand what happens when a customer joins us, when they buy a primary device versus a used device, we understand their behavior, in different markets and so on. So we have, I think, pretty good visibility. And I think the progress that we're making in Services, we did $85 billion in the last 12 months. It's -- that's a size of a Fortune 50 and significantly bigger than it was just a couple of years ago.

Cook: Thank you. Suhasini. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining the call. Today, Apple is reporting revenue of $119.6 billion for the December quarter, up 2% from a year ago despite having one less week in the quarter. EPS was $2.18, up 16% from a year ago and an all-time record. We achieved revenue records across more than two dozen countries and regions including all-time records in Europe and rest of Asia-Pacific. We also continue to see strong double-digit growth in many emerging markets with all-time records in Malaysia, Mexico, The Philippines, Poland, and Turkey, as well as December quarter records in India, Indonesia, Saudi Arabia, and Chile. In Services, we set an all-time revenue record with paid subscriptions growing double-digits year-over-year. And I'm pleased to announce today that we have set a new record for our installed base, which has now surpassed 2.2 billion active devices. We are announcing these results on the eve of what is sure to be a historic day as we enter the era of spatial computing. Starting tomorrow, Apple Vision Pro, the most advanced personal electronics device ever, will be available in Apple stores for customers in the U.S. with expansion to other countries later this year. Apple Vision Pro is a revolutionary device built on decades of Apple innovation and it's years ahead of anything else. Apple Vision Pro has a groundbreaking new input system and thousands of innovations, and it will unlock incredible experiences for users and developers that are simply not possible on any other device. There is already so much excitement behind this product from reviewers, customers, and developers. They are praising everything from the incredible experience of watching a movie on a 100-foot screen to remarkable new machine learning capabilities like hand tracking and room mapping. We can't wait for people to experience the magic for themselves. Moments like these are what we live for at Apple. They're why we do what we do. They're why we're so unflinchingly dedicated to groundbreaking innovation and why we're so focused on pushing technology to its limits as we work to enrich the lives of our users. As we look ahead, we will continue to invest in these and other technologies that will shape the future. That includes artificial intelligence where we continue to spend a tremendous amount of time and effort, and we're excited to share the details of our ongoing work in that space later this year. Now, let's turn to the results for the December quarter, beginning with iPhone. We are proud to report that revenue came in at $69.7 billion, 6% higher than a year ago. The iPhone 15 lineup has earned glowing reviews and been embraced by customers. The iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Plus feature a gorgeous new design with color-infused back glass and contoured edges, Dynamic Island, A16 Bionic, and a new 48 megapixel camera system. And the iPhone 15 Pro and iPhone 15 Pro Max set the gold standard for smartphones with a beautiful and lighter titanium design, industry-leading performance with A17 Pro and our most advanced camera system with the equivalent of seven pro lenses and the ability to record spatial video. Features like Emergency SoS and roadside assistance via satellite bring peace of mind to users when they travel, and I'm grateful for every note I've received about their lifesaving impact. Turning to Mac. Revenue came in at $7.8 billion, up 1% year-over-year, driven by the strength of our latest M3-powered MacBook Pro models in spite of having one less week of sales. Just last week, we got to wish Mac a happy 40th birthday. When it was introduced 40 years ago, Mac changed everything, and through the years, it has done so again and again. Recently, we have been on a tremendous pace of innovation. Since the introduction of Apple silicon in 2020, we've been proud to offer our users unmatched performance and power along with a remarkable Neural Engine for artificial intelligence and machine learning. This past fall, we had an amazing launch of the latest generation of Apple silicon for Mac, M3, M3 Pro, and M3 Max. These chips break new ground in power and performance empowering users to do more than they ever could before, whether they're making a musical masterpiece using the latest features in Logic Pro, or beating their high score in a graphics intensive game. A favorite amongst students, business owners, artists, and video editors, our MacBook Pro lineup is the world's best pro notebook family. And iMac, the world's most capable and best-selling all-in one, is now faster than ever, thanks to M3. In iPad, revenue for the December quarter was $7 billion, down 25% year-over-year due to a difficult compare with the launch of the M2 iPad Pro and the 10th generation iPad during the December quarter last year and one less week of sales. iPad remains the most versatile, capable, and elegant tablet on the market today. It continues to be the go-to-device for students, creators, and more with customers loving iPad's incredible combination of portability and performance. Powerful apps like Final Cut Pro and Logic Pro for iPad allow video and music creators to unleash their creativity in new ways that are only possible on iPad. iPad continues to push the boundaries of what's possible on a tablet. In Wearables, Home and Accessories, revenue came in at $12 billion, down 11% from a year ago due to a difficult compare with the launch timing of several products in this category and the impact of the 14th week last year. Across our latest Apple Watch lineup, we're enabling and encouraging our users to live a healthier day, while making Apple Watch even more intuitive to use. The new double tap gesture on Apple Watch Series 9 and Apple Watch Ultra 2 make it easier to answer calls, play and pause music or take a photo with iPhone. I've been deeply moved by the many touching stories about how features like a regular rhythm notification and fall detection helped Apple Watch users when they needed it most. And for the first time ever, users can choose a carbon-neutral option of any new Apple Watch. Meanwhile, our AirPods lineup continue to be a holiday favorite. In Services, we set an all-time revenue record of $23.1 billion and an 11% year-over-year increase. Because we had one less week this quarter, this growth represents an acceleration from the September quarter, and we achieved all-time revenue records across advertising, cloud services, payment services and video, as well as December quarter records in App Store and AppleCare. Across our services, we're constantly growing our offerings to give users even more to love. With the redesigned Apple TV app, we've made it easier for subscribers to enjoy all their favorite shows, movies and sports, including Apple TV+ hits like Masters of the Air, Monarch, and Slow Horses. We're proud to be a part of Martin Scorsese's Killers of the Flower Moon, a film that has moved audiences and earned more than 200 accolades including Best Film of the Year from the New York Film Critics Circle, nine BAFTA nominations, a Golden Globe win, and 10 Oscar nominations, including Best Picture. Across all Apple TV+ productions, we've now earned 2050 award nominations and 450 wins since we've introduced the service. We're also excited to have a new season of Major League Soccer kicking off this month. We're looking forward to seeing Lionel Messi return to the field and to following all of our favorite teams in what is sure to be an incredible season. And we're counting down to the Apple Music Super Bowl halftime show, featuring Usher. Turning to Retail. In recent months, we opened three stores, including our 100th store in Asia-Pacific. Throughout the holidays, our team members pulled out all the stops to help customers find the perfect gift. And I know our U.S. team members are especially excited to begin demoing Apple Vision Pro for our customers tomorrow. At Apple, we live and breathe innovation. We are driven to pioneer new technology that can enrich our customers' lives, and we're just as intentional about showing up with our values and being a force for good in the world. February is Black History Month, and to honor it, we've launched our new Black Unity Collection, which includes the Black Unity Sport Loop band. This year's designs reflect a lasting commitment to working toward a more equitable world. We also continue to do a central work through our Racial Equity and Justice Initiative, and we're proud to continue providing grants to organizations that are making a real impact in the world. In recent months, we've also taken significant strides in our environmental work. We're partnering with suppliers to bring more clean energy online for Apple production. We're using more recycled materials than ever before and more energy-efficient transportation than ever before. And each day, we are taking more and more steps toward becoming 100% carbon-neutral across all of our products by 2030. Apple is a company that has never shied away from big challenges. That's because we are grounded by a deep sense of purpose and guided by core belief in the transformative power of innovation. And so, we are optimistic about the future, confident in the long-term, and as excited as we've ever been to deliver for our users like only

Maestri: Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone. Revenue for the December quarter was $119.6 billion, up 2% from last year. During the December quarter a year ago, two unique factors affected our results. First, we had an additional week in the quarter. And second, we had COVID-related factory shutdowns that limited iPhone supply. We estimate that the net impact of these two factors resulted in a 2 percentage point headwind to our revenue performance this quarter. We set all-time revenue records in Europe and rest of Asia-Pacific, and continue to see strong performance across our emerging markets with double-digit growth in the majority of the emerging markets we track. Products revenue was $96.5 billion, flat compared to last year, driven by strength in iPhone, offset by challenging compares for iPad and Wearables, Home and Accessories and one less week of sales this year across the entire portfolio. Thanks to our unparalleled customer loyalty and very strong levels of customer satisfaction, our total installed base of active devices set a new record across all products and all geographic segments, and is now over 2.2 billion active devices. Services revenue set an all-time record of $23.1 billion, up 11% year-over-year. When we take into account the extra week last year, this represents a sequential acceleration of growth from the September quarter. We are very pleased with our Services performance in both developed and emerging markets with all-time revenue records in the Americas, Europe, and rest of Asia-Pacific. Company gross margin was 45.9%, up 70 basis points sequentially, driven by leverage and favorable mix, partially offset by foreign exchange. Products gross margin was 39.4%, up 280 basis points sequentially, also driven by leverage and mix, partially offset by foreign exchange. Services gross margin was 72.8%, up 190 basis points from last quarter, due to a more favorable mix. Operating expenses of $14.5 billion were at the midpoint of the guidance range we provided and up 1% year-over-year. Net income was $33.9 billion, up $3.9 billion from last year. Diluted EPS was $2.18, up 16% versus last year and an all-time record. And operating cash flow was very strong at $39.9 billion. Let me now provide more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue was $69.7 billion, up 6% year-over-year. We set all-time records in several countries and regions, including Latin America, Western Europe, the Middle East, and Korea, as well as December quarter records in India and Indonesia. Our iPhone active installed base grew to a new all-time high, and we had an all-time record number of iPhone upgraders during the quarter. Customers are loving their new iPhone 15 family, with the latest reports from 451 Research indicating customer satisfaction of 99% in the U.S. In fact, many iPhone models were among the top-selling smartphones around the world during the quarter. According to a survey from Kantar, iPhones were four out of the top five models in the U.S. and Japan, four out of the top six models in urban China and the UK, and all top five models in Australia. Mac generated revenue of $7.8 billion and return to growth, despite one less week of sales this year. This represents a significant acceleration from the September quarter when we faced a challenging compare due to the supply disruptions and subsequent demand recapture we experienced a year ago. Customer response to our latest iMac and MacBook Pro models powered by the M3 chips has been great. And our Mac installed base reached an all-time high with almost half of Mac buyers during the quarter being new to the product. Also, 451 Research recently reported customer satisfaction of 97% for Mac in the U.S. iPad was $7 billion in revenue, down 25% year-over-year. iPad faced a difficult compare because during the December quarter last year, we launched the new iPad Pro and iPad 10 generation, and we had an extra week of sales. However, the iPad installed base continues to grow and is an all-time high with over half of the customers who purchased iPads during the quarter being new to the product, and customer satisfaction for iPad was recently measured at 98% in the U.S. Wearables, Home and Accessories revenue was $12 billion, down 11% year-over-year due to a challenging launch compare and the extra week a year ago. This time last year, we had the full quarter benefit from the launches of the AirPods Pro 2nd generation, the Watch SE, and the first Watch Ultra. We continue to attract new customers to Apple Watch. Nearly two-thirds of customers purchasing an Apple Watch during the quarter were new to the product, and the latest reports from 451 Research indicate customer satisfaction of 96% in the U.S. And in Services, we were very pleased with our double-digit growth, which was driven by the strength of our ecosystem. Our installed base is now over 2.2 billion active devices and continues to grow nicely, establishing a solid foundation for the future expansion of our Services business. And we continue to see increased customer engagement with our services. Both transacting accounts and paid accounts reached a new all-time high, with paid accounts growing double-digits year-over-year. Also, our paid subscriptions showed strong double-digit growth. We have well over 1 billion paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, more than double the number that we had only four years ago. Finally, we continue to build on the breadth and the quality of our current services. From Oscar-nominated theatrical releases with Apple TV+ to more publications or News+ like The Atlantic and exciting new games on Arcade. Turning to Enterprise, we continue to see many business customers leverage Apple products to improve productivity and drive innovation. Target recently added the latest M3 MacBook Pro to their existing deployment of thousands of Mac’s, enabling employees across various departments to do their best work. In emerging markets, Zoho, a leading technology company headquartered in India, offers its 15,000 plus global employees a choice of devices, with 80% of their workforce using iPhone for work and nearly two-thirds of them choosing Mac as their primary computer. With the upcoming launch of Apple Vision Pro, we are seeing strong excitement in Enterprise. Leading organizations across many industries such as Walmart, Nike, Vanguard, Stryker, Bloomberg, and SAP have started leveraging and investing in Apple Vision Pro as their new platform to bring innovative spatial computing experiences to their customers and employees. From everyday productivity to collaborative product design to immersive training, we cannot wait to see the amazing things our enterprise customers will create in the months and years to come. Let me now turn to our cash position and capital return program. We ended the quarter with $173 billion in cash and marketable securities. We decreased commercial paper by $4 billion, leaving us with total debt of $108 billion. As a result, net cash was $65 billion at the end of the quarter, and our goal of becoming net cash-neutral over time remains unchanged. During the quarter, we returned nearly $27 billion to shareholders, including $3.8 billion in dividends and equivalents and $20.5 billion through open market repurchases of 112 million Apple shares. We also retired an additional 6 million shares in the final settlement of our 19th ASR. As usual, we will provide an update to our capital return program when we report results at the end of this quarter. As we move ahead into the March quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Suhasini referred to at the beginning of the call. The color we are providing today assumes that the macroeconomic outlook doesn't worsen from what we are projecting today for the current quarter. And we expect foreign exchange to be a revenue headwind of about 2 percentage points on a year-over-year basis. As a reminder, in the December quarter a year ago, we faced significant supply constraints on the iPhone 14 Pro and 14 Pro Max due to COVID-19 factory shutdowns. And in the March quarter a year ago, we were able to replenish channel inventory and fulfill significant pent-up demand from the constraints. We estimate that this impact added close to $5 billion to the March quarter's total revenue last year. When we remove this impact from last year's revenue, we expect both our March quarter total company revenue and iPhone revenue to be similar to a year ago. For our Services business, we expect a similar double-digit growth rate to what we reported in the December quarter. We expect gross margin to be between 46% and 47%. We expect OpEx to be between $14.3 billion and $14.5 billion. We expect OI&E to be around $50 million, excluding any potential impact from the mark-to-market of minority investments and our tax rate to be around 16%. Finally, today our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.24 per share of common stock payable on February 15, 2024, to shareholders of record as of February 12, 2024.

Chandramouli: Thank you, Luca. We ask that you limit yourself to two questions. Operator, may we have the first question please?

Mohan: Yes, thank you so much. I have two questions as well. First on iPhone. There have been concerns around replacement cycles lengthening, China competition intensifying, and you still beat iPhone revenues despite the weaker performance in China. Curious how you're thinking about the 15 cycle overall, given what you saw in the

Cook: Hi, it's Tim. The -- we were up 6%, as we mentioned in the opening remarks. We are happy with that performance. Underneath there, we had really strong performance in several parts of the world with all-time records in Europe and rest of Asia-Pacific. As I mentioned earlier, we did particularly well in several emerging markets from Latin America to the Middle East. And we set December quarter records in India and Indonesia. And so, really some spectacular broad-based reactions to iPhone. We also importantly set an all-time record worldwide for iPhone upgraders. And the installed base hit a new all-time high consistent with the -- our overall devices. And so, there's lot of good things. Luca mentioned in his opening comments that iPhones were four out of the top five smartphone models in the U.S. and Japan and four out of the top six in urban China and the UK, and all top five in Australia, and the customer satisfaction level for iPhone 15 hit 99%. If you look at iPhone 15 since the announcement of it and shipment in September, so this is including some of Q4 and you compare that to iPhone 14 over the same period of time, iPhone 15 is outselling iPhone 14. And so, we feel very good about that, and the upgraders hitting a record is particularly exciting for us.

Mohan: Great. Thank you, Tim. And as a follow-up, obviously, you're just launching the Vision Pro and it's an entirely new category. It's a price point that's a much higher starting price point relative to most of your other, probably over the last decade, product introductions, but just wondering how would you measure the success of Vision Pro over time and which Apple products adoption curve would you look at as potentially the most similar? And is there a way in which we could think Vision Pro could eclipse maybe something like the i

Cook: Yes. You know, the -- let me try to answer a little bit of both and then Luca can add some comments to it. We announced a number of changes last week in Europe that would be in effect beginning in March. So, the last month of the first calendar quarter, the second fiscal quarter. Those are -- some of the things that we announced include alternate billing opportunities, alternate app stores, our marketplaces, if you will. We're also opening NFC for new capabilities for banking and wallet apps. And so, these are some of the things we announced. The -- if you think about what we've done over the years is, we've really majored on privacy, security, and usability. And we've tried our best to get as close to the past in terms of the things that are -- that people love about our ecosystem as we can, but we are going to fall short of providing the maximum amount that we could supply, because we need to comply with the regulation. And so, in terms of predicting the choices that developers and users will make, it's very difficult to do that with precision.

Maestri: Yes, Amit. As Tim said, these are changes that we're going to be implementing in March. A lot will depend on the choices that will be made. Just to keep it in context, the changes applied to the EU market, which represents roughly 7% of our global app store revenue.

Rakers: Yes. Thanks for taking the question. I have two as well as you would imagine. I guess, the first question I wanted to just ask maybe unpack a little bit more, just remarkable trends that we're seeing in your product gross margin specifically. So, I'm curious as we look forward, I guess on this last quarter, where there any kind of benefits you're seeing from like just the purchase component, obligations that you've put in place, let's say, a year ago, and that flowing through. And how are you thinking about the component pricing environment as we think about that gross margin into the March quarter and looking-forward?

Sankar: Yes. Hi. Thanks for taking my question. I have two of them. First one for Luca, a clarification on a question. The $5 billion impact in March quarter, is that for product revenue or is that total company revenue. And along the same part, you highlighted the strong gross margins. And I understand last year, some of the commodity costs were deflationary, buy looks like it’s going to be inflationary right now. And also you've done some of the Mac conversions that -- the silicon conversions. So I'm just trying to figure out how much juice is there more to squeeze on the gross margin side?

Maestri: Yes. The -- so the first part of the question was around -- oh, the $5 billion. The $5 billion, as I mentioned, a year ago we had this disruption of supply on iPhone 14 Pro and Pro Max because of the factory shutdown due to the COVID-19 situation. And so, essentially there was pent up demand as we exited December quarter, they got fulfilled and we also did the channel fill associated with it during the March quarter. So close to $5 billion that I mentioned is entirely related to iPhone. On the gross margin side, obviously, we are at very high levels of gross margin. And I'll repeat what I said before, we've had good expansion over the last few quarters and now we are guiding to 46% to 47% and that takes into account everything that is going on, which is, the commodity environment, which is the foreign exchange situation, and obviously the product and services mix. And the outcome of this is the guidance, which obviously is very strong and we're very happy with it.

Sankar: Thanks a lot, Luca. And then I have a follow-up for Tim. Tim, it was very interesting to hear your comments on enterprise. And historically, Apple has been a consumer centric company. And now with Vision Pro, Mac, it's sort of penetrating more into the enterprise. I'm kind of curious how to think about Apple of the future? Would it still be consumer centric or do you think it's going to be more enterprise focused also as we get into the future?

Cook: Let me just say that, I think there's a huge opportunity for Apple with GenAI and AI. And without getting into to more details and getting out in front of myself.

Cook: Thank you, Suhasini. Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining the call. Today, Apple is reporting revenue of $90.8 billion and an EPS record of $1.53 for the March quarter. We set revenue records in more than a dozen countries and regions. These include, among others, March quarter records in Latin-America and the Middle East, as well as Canada, India, Spain and Turkey. We also achieved an all-time revenue record in Indonesia, one of the many markets where we continue to see so much potential. In services, we set an all-time revenue record, up 14% over the past year. Keep in mind, as we described on the last call, in the March quarter a year-ago, we were able to replenish iPhone channel inventory and fulfill significant pent-up demand from the December quarter COVID-related supply disruptions on the iPhone 14 Pro and 14 Pro Max. We estimate this one-time impact added close to $5 billion to the March quarter revenue last year. If we remove this from last year's results, our March quarter total company revenue this year would have grown. Despite this impact, we were still able to deliver the records I described. Of course, this past quarter, we were thrilled to launch Apple Vision Pro and it has been so wonderful to hear from people who now get to experience the magic of spatial computing. They describe the impossible becoming possible right before their eyes and they share their amazement and their emotions about what they can do now, whether it's reliving their most treasured memories or having a movie theater experience right in their living room. It's also great to see the enthusiasm from the enterprise market. For example, more than half of the Fortune 100 companies have already bought Apple Vision Pro units and are exploring innovative ways to use it to do things that weren't possible before, and this is just the beginning. Looking ahead, we're getting ready for an exciting product announcement next week that we think our customers will love. And next month, we have our Worldwide Developers Conference, which has generated enormous enthusiasm from our developers. We can't wait to reveal what we have in-store. We continue to feel very bullish about our opportunity in Generative AI. We are making significant investments, and we're looking forward to sharing some very exciting things with our customers soon. We believe in the transformative power and promise of AI, and we believe we have advantages that will differentiate us in this new era, including Apple's unique combination of seamless hardware, software and services integration, groundbreaking Apple's silicon, with our industry-leading neural engines and our unwavering focus on privacy, which underpins everything we create. As we push innovation forward, we continue to manage thoughtfully and deliberately through an uneven macroeconomic environment and remain focused on putting our users at the center of everything we do. Now let's turn to our results for the March quarter across each product category, beginning with iPhone. iPhone revenue for the March quarter was $46 billion, down 10% year-over-year. We faced a difficult compare over the previous year due to the $5 billion impact that I mentioned earlier. However, we still saw growth on iPhone in some markets, including Mainland China, and according to Kantar during the quarter, the two best-selling smartphones in Urban China were the iPhone 15 and iPhone 15 Pro Max. I was in China recently where I had the chance to meet with developers and creators who are doing remarkable things with iPhone. And just a couple of weeks ago, I visited Vietnam, Indonesia and Singapore, where it was incredible to see all the ways customers and communities are using our products and services to do amazing things. Everywhere I travel, people have such a great affinity for Apple, and it's one of the many reasons I'm so optimistic about the future. Turning to Mac. March quarter revenue was $7.5 billion, up 4% from a year ago. We had an amazing launch in early March with the new 13-inch and 15-inch MacBook Air. The world's most popular laptop is the best consumer laptop for AI with breakthrough performance of the M3 chip and it’s even more powerful neural engine. Whether it's an entrepreneur starting a new business or a college student finishing their degree, users depend on the power and portability of MacBook Air to take them places they couldn't have gone without it. In iPad, revenue for the March quarter was $5.6 billion, 17% lower year-over-year, due to a difficult compare with the momentum following the launch of M2 iPad Pro and the 10th Generation iPad last fiscal year. iPad continues to stand apart for its versatility, power and performance. For video editors, music makers and creatives of all kinds, iPad is empowering users to do more than they ever could with a tablet. Across Wearables, Home and Accessories, March quarter revenue was $7.9 billion, down 10% from a year-ago due to a difficult launch compare on Watch and AirPods. Apple Watch is helping runners go the extra mile on their wellness journeys, keeping hikers on course with the latest navigation capabilities in watchOS 10, and enabling users of all fitness levels to live a healthier day. Across our watch lineup, we're harnessing AI and machine-learning to power lifesaving features like a regular rhythm notifications and fall detection. I often hear about how much these features mean to users and their loved ones and I'm thankful that so many people are able to get help in their time of greatest need. As I shared earlier, we set an all-time revenue record in services with $23.9 billion, up 14% year-over-year. We also achieved all-time revenue records across several categories and geographic segments. Audiences are tuning in on screens large, small and spatial and are enjoying Apple TV+ Originals like Palm Royale and Sugar. And we have some incredible theatrical releases coming this year, including Wolves, which reunites George Clooney and Brad Pitt. Apple TV+ productions continue to be celebrated as major awards contenders. Since launch, Apple TV+ productions have earned more than 2,100 award nominations and 480 wins. Meanwhile, we're enhancing the live sports experience with a new iPhone app, Apple Sports. This free app allows fans to follow their favorite teams and leagues with real-time scores, stats and more. Apple Sports is the perfect companion for MLS Season Pass subscribers. Turning to retail, our stores continued to be vital spaces for connection and innovation. I was delighted to be in Shanghai for the opening of our latest flagship store. The energy and enthusiasm from our customers was truly something to behold. And across the United States, our incredible retail teams have been sharing Vision Pro demos with customers, delighting them with a profound and emotional experience of using it for the very first time. Everywhere we operate and everything we do, we're guided by our mission to enrich users' lives and lead the world better than we found it, whether we're making Apple podcasts more accessible with a new transcripts feature or helping to safeguard iMessage users' privacy with new protections that can defend against advances in quantum computing. Our environmental work is another great example of how innovation and our values come together. As we work toward our goal of being carbon-neutral across all of our products by 2030, we are proud of how we've been able to innovate and do more for our customers while taking less from the planet. Since 2015, Apple has cut our overall emissions by more than half, while revenue grew nearly 65% during that same time period. And we're now using more recycled materials in our products than ever before. Earlier this spring, we launched our first-ever product to use 50% recycled materials with a new M3-powered MacBook Air. We're also investing in new solar and wind power in the U.S. and Europe, both to power our growing operations and our users' devices. And we're working with partners in India and the U.S. to replenish 100% of the water we use in places that need it most with the goal of delivering billions of gallons of water benefits over the next two decades. Through our Restore Fund, Apple has committed $200 million to nature-based carbon removal projects. And last month, we welcomed two supplier partners as new investors, who will together invest up to an additional $80 million in the fund. Whether we're enriching lives of users across the globe or doing our part to be a force for good in the world, we do everything with a deep sense of purpose at Apple. And I'm proud of the impact we've already made at the halfway point in a year of unprecedented innovation. I couldn't be more excited for the future we have ahead of us, driven by the imagination and innovation of our teams and the enduring importance of our products and services in people's lives.

Maestri: Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone. Revenue for the March quarter was $90.8 billion, down 4% from last year. Foreign exchange had a negative year-over-year impact of 140 basis points on our results. Products revenue was $66.9 billion, down 10% year-over-year due to the challenging compare on iPhone that Tim described earlier, which was partially offset by strength from Mac. And thanks to our unparalleled customer satisfaction and loyalty and a high number of customers who are new to our products, our installed base of active devices reached an all-time high across all products and all geographic segments. Services revenue set an all-time record of $23.9 billion, up 14% year-over-year with record performance in both developed and emerging markets. Company gross margin was 46.6%, up 70 basis points sequentially, driven by cost savings and favorable mix to services, partially offset by leverage. Products gross margin was 36.6%, down 280 basis points sequentially, primarily driven by seasonal loss of leverage and mix, partially offset by favorable costs. Services gross margin was 74.6%, up 180 basis points from last quarter due to a more favorable mix. Operating expenses of $14.4 billion were at the midpoint of the guidance range we provided and up 5% year-over-year. Net income was $23.6 billion, diluted EPS was $1.53 and a March quarter record, and operating cash flow was strong at $22.7 billion. Let me now provide more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue was $46 billion, down 10% year-over-year, due to the almost $5 billion impact from a year ago that Tim described earlier. Adjusting for this one-time impact, iPhone revenue would be roughly flat to last year. Our iPhone active installed base grew to a new all-time high in total and in every geographic segment. And during the March quarter, we saw many iPhone models as the top-selling smartphones around the world. In fact, according to a survey from Kantar, an iPhone was the top-selling model in the U.S., Urban China, Australia, the U.K., France, Germany and Japan. And the iPhone 15 family continues to be very popular with customers. 451 Research recently measured customer satisfaction at 99% in the U.S. Mac revenue was $7.5 billion, up 4% year-over-year, driven by the strength of our new MacBook Air, powered by the M3 chip. Customers are loving the incredible AI performance of the latest MacBook Air and MacBook Pro models. And our Mac installed base reached an all-time high with half of our MacBook Air buyers during the quarter being new to Mac. Also customer satisfaction for Mac was recently reported at 96% in the U.S. iPad generated $5.6 billion in revenue, down 17% year-over-year. iPad continued to face a challenging compare against the launch of the M2 iPad Pro and iPad 10th Generation from last year. At the same time, the iPad installed base has continued to grow and is at an all-time high as over half of the customers who purchased iPads during the quarter were new to the product. In addition, the latest reports from 451 Research indicated customer satisfaction of 96% for iPad in the US. Wearables, Home and Accessories revenue was $7.9 billion, down 10% year-over-year due to a difficult launch compare. Last year, we had the continued benefit from the launches of the AirPods Pro second-generation, the Watch SE and the first Watch Ultra. Apple Watch continues to attract new customers, with almost two-thirds of customers purchasing an Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product, sending the Apple Watch installed base to a new all-time high and customer satisfaction was recently measured at 95% in the U.S. In services, as I mentioned, total revenue reached an all-time record of $23.9 billion, growing 14% year-over-year with our installed-base of active devices continuing to grow at a nice pace. This provides a strong foundation for the future growth of the services business as we continued to see increased customer engagement with our ecosystem. Both transacting accounts and paid accounts reached a new all-time high with paid accounts growing double-digits year-over-year. And paid subscriptions showed strong double-digit growth. We have well over $1 billion paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, more than double the number that we had only four years ago. We continued to improve the breadth and quality of our current services from creating new games on Arcade and great new shows on TV+ to launching additional countries and partners for Apple Pay. Turning to enterprise, our customers continued to invest in Apple products to drive productivity and innovation. We see more and more enterprise customers embracing the Mac. In Healthcare, Epic Systems, the world's largest electronic medical record provider, recently launched its native app for the Mac, making it easier for healthcare organizations like Emory Health to transition thousands of PCs to the Mac for clinical use. And since the launch of Vision Pro last quarter, many leading enterprise customers have been investing in this amazing new product to bring spatial computing apps and experiences to life. We are seeing so many compelling use cases from aircraft engine maintenance training at KLM Airlines to real-time team collaboration for racing at Porsche to immersive kitchen design at Lowe's. We couldn't be more excited about the spatial computing opportunity in enterprise. Taking a quick step back, when we look at our performance during the first-half of our fiscal year, total company revenue was roughly flat to the prior year in spite of having one less week of sales during the period and some foreign exchange headwinds. We were particularly pleased with our strong momentum in emerging markets, as we set first-half revenue records in several countries and regions, including Latin-America, the Middle East, India, Indonesia, the Philippines and Turkey. These results, coupled with double-digit growth in services and strong levels of gross margin, drove a first half diluted EPS record of $3.71, up 9% from last year. Let me now turn to our cash position and capital return program. We ended the quarter with $162 billion in cash and marketable securities. We repaid $3.2 billion in maturing debt and commercial paper was unchanged sequentially, leaving us with total debt of $105 billion. As a result, net cash was $58 billion at the end of the quarter. During the quarter, we returned over $27 billion to shareholders, including $3.7 billion in dividends and equivalents and $23.5 billion through open-market repurchases of $130 million Apple's shares. Given the continued confidence we have in our business now and into the future, our Board has authorized today an additional $110 billion for share repurchases, as we maintain our goal of getting to net cash-neutral over time. We are also raising our dividend by 4% to $0.25 per share of common stock, and we continued to plan for annual increases in the dividend going forward as we've done for the last 12 years. This cash dividend will be payable on May 16, 2024 to shareholders of record as of May 13, 2024. As we move ahead into the June quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Suhasini referred to at the beginning of the call. The color we are providing today assumes that the macroeconomic outlook doesn't worsen from what we are projecting today for the current quarter. We expect our June quarter total company revenue to grow low-single-digits year-over-year in spite of a foreign exchange headwind of about 2.5 percentage points. We expect our services business to grow double-digits at a rate similar to the growth we reported for the first-half of the fiscal year. And we expect iPad revenue to grow double-digits. We expect gross margin to be between 45.5% to -- and 46.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $14.3 billion and $14.5 billion. We expect OI&E to be around $50 million, excluding any potential impact from the mark-to-market of minority investments and our tax rate to be around 16%.

Ng: Great. Thank you. And I wanted to ask about, as Apple leans more into AI and Generative AI, should we expect any changes to the historical CapEx cadence that we've seen in the last few years of about $10 billion to $11 billion per year or any changes to, you know, how we may have historically thought about the split between tooling, data center and facilities?

Maestri: Yes. We are obviously very excited about the opportunity with Gen AI. We obviously are pushing very hard on innovation on every front and we've been doing that for many, many years. Just during the last five years, we spent more than a $100 billion in research and development. As you know, on the CapEx front, we have a bit of a hybrid model where we make some of the investments ourselves. In other cases, we share them with our suppliers and partners on the manufacturing side, we purchased some of the tools and manufacturing equipment. In some of the cases, our suppliers make the investment. On the -- and we do something similar on the data center side. We have our own data center capacity and then we use capacity from third parties. It's a model that has worked well for us historically and we plan to continue along the same lines going forward.

Mohan: Yes, thank you so much. Tim, can you talk about the implications to Apple from the changes driven by EU DMA? You've had to open up third-party app stores, clearly disposes some security risks on the one-hand, which can dilute the experience, but also lower payments from developers to Apple. What are you seeing developers choose in these early days and consumers choose in terms of these third-party app stores?

Chatterjee: Got it. Got it. And for my follow up, if I can ask you more specifically about the India market. Obviously, you continue to make new records in terms of revenue in that market. How much of the momentum you're seeing would you associate with your sort of retail strategy in that market, retail expansion relative to maybe some of the supply change or the sort of manufacturing changes or strategy you've undergone or taken in that market itself. Any thoughts around that would be helpful?

Cook: Sure. We did grow strong double-digit. And so we were very, very pleased about it. It was a new March quarter revenue record for us. As you know, as I've said before, I see it as an incredibly exciting market and it's a major focus for us. In terms of the operational side or supply chain side, we are producing there, from a pragmatic point of view, you need to produce there to be competitive. And so yes, there the two things are linked from that point of view. But we have both operational things going on and we have go-to-market, and initiatives going on. We just opened a couple of stores as last year, as you know, and we see enormous opportunity there. We're continuing to expand our channels, and also working on the developer ecosystem as well. And we've been very pleased that there is a rapidly-growing base of developers there. And so, we're working all of the entire ecosystem from developer to the market to operations, the whole thing. And

Rakers: Yes, thanks for taking the questions, and I think I have to have two as well like everybody else. I guess, I'm going to go back to the China question. I guess, at a high level, the simple question is, when we look at the data points that have been repeatedly reported throughout the course of this quarter, I'm curious, Tim, you know, what are we missing? Like where do you think people are missing, Apple's iPhone traction within the China market, just at a high level, you know, given the data points that were reported throughout this course of the last quarter?

Cook: I can't address the data points. I can only address what our results are. And we did accelerate last quarter, and the iPhone grew in Mainland China. So that's what the results were.

Rakers: Okay. And then as a quick follow-up, I know you guys haven't talked about this, you know, quantified it in quite some time. But I'm curious how we would characterize the channel inventory dynamics for iPhone?

Cook: Sure. The -- for the March quarter, we decreased channel inventory during the quarter. We usually decreased channel inventory during the Q2 timeframe. So that's not unusual.

Kramer: Thanks very much. I'm not going to ask about China, but you regularly call out all the rapid growth in many other emerging markets. So is Apple approaching a point where all of those other emerging markets in aggregate might crossover to become larger than your current $70 billion Greater China segments, and maybe investors could look at that for driving growth for the wider business?

Maestri: Yes, we provide guidance just for the current quarter. So I'll tell you about the, you know, the guidance. We're guiding to again to a very high level of gross margins, 45.5% to 46.5%. Within that guidance, we expect memory to be a slight headwind, not a very large one, but a slight headwind. And the same applies for foreign exchange. Foreign exchange will have a negative impact sequentially of about 30 basis points.

Cook: Thank you Suhasini. Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining the call. Today, Apple is reporting a new June quarter revenue record of $85.8 billion, up 5% from a year ago and better than we had expected. EPS grew double digits to $1.40 and achieved a record for the June quarter. We also set quarterly revenue records in more than two dozen countries and regions, including Canada, Mexico, France, Germany, the UK, India, Indonesia, the Philippines, and Thailand. And we set an all-time revenue record in services which grew 14%. At our Worldwide Developers Conference, we were thrilled to unveil game-changing updates across our platforms, including Apple Intelligence. Apple Intelligence builds on years of innovation and investment in AI and Machine Learning. It will transform how users interact with technology, from writing tools to help you express yourself, to image playground, which gives you the ability to create fun images and communicate in new ways, to powerful tools for summarizing and prioritizing notifications. Siri also becomes more natural, more useful, and more personal than ever. Apple Intelligence is built on a foundation of privacy, both through on-device processing that does not collect users' data and through private cloud compute, a groundbreaking new approach to using the cloud, while protecting users' information powered by Apple silicon. We are also integrating ChatGPT into experiences within iPhone, Mac, and iPad, enabling users to draw on a broad base of world knowledge. We are very excited about Apple Intelligence and we remain incredibly optimistic about the extraordinary possibilities of AI and its ability to enrich customers' lives. We will continue to make significant investments in this technology and dedicate ourselves to the innovation that will unlock its full potential. Recently, we've also been excited to bring Apple Vision Pro to more countries, giving customers the chance to discover the remarkable capabilities of this magical device. Vision Pro users are customizing their own workspaces, watching movies on 100-foot screens, and exploring entire worlds with just a pinch of their fingertips. With more than 2,500 native spatial apps and 1.5 million compatible apps for Vision OS, the developer community continues to pioneer stunning spatial experiences that are only possible with Vision Pro. Last month, we announced that we're bringing some amazing new immersive content to Vision Pro, including new series, concerts, films, and more. And we've seen great interest for Vision Pro in the enterprise, where it can empower companies large and small to pursue their best ideas like never before. With each innovation, we're unlocking new ways of working, new ways of learning, and new ways of tapping into the unlimited promise of human potential. We are doing that across every product and every service. Now let me share more detail in our June quarter results, beginning with iPhone. iPhone revenue was $39.3 billion, down 1% year-over-year. On a constant currency basis, we grew compared to last year. Customers continue to praise the iPhone 15 lineup for its incredible battery life, exceptional cameras, and unmatched power and performance. And we are excited to bring incredible new features to the iPhone with iOS 18, making it more personal, capable, and intelligent than ever before. This update includes the biggest redesign of the Photos app, new customization options for the home screen, messages over satellite, and the introduction of Apple Intelligence. Apple Intelligence utilizes the power of our most advanced iPhones, the iPhone 15 Pro and Pro Max, offering a transformative set of capabilities. Mac revenue was $7 billion, up 2% from a year ago. Customers are loving the latest M3-powered 13 and 15 inch MacBook Air. With back-to-school season upon us, MacBook Air is the perfect companion for students on campus and small business owners, developers, and creatives of all kinds depend on Mac to do more than they ever could before. Powered by Apple silicon with its neural engine and privacy built in at the chip level, Macs are simply the best personal computers for AI. And every Mac we've shipped with Apple silicon since 2020, is capable of taking advantage of Apple Intelligence with Mac OS Sequoia. We also know the importance of security for our users and enterprises so we continue to advance protections across our products. Turning to iPad, revenue was $7.2 billion, 24% higher year-over-year. During the quarter, we had an incredible launch where we unveiled the all-new 11 and 13 inch iPad Air, the perfect device for education, entertainment, and so much more. And With the new iPad Pro, we pushed the boundaries of power-efficient performance with the remarkable M4 chip, the engine behind this incredibly thin device. By leveraging the latest in Apple silicon, Video Editors and Musicians can take advantage of the cutting edge AI features in Final Cut Pro and Logic Pro. And we're very excited that iPad Pro and iPad Air models powered by the M series of Apple silicon will be able to utilize the powerful capabilities of Apple Intelligence. In wearables, home, and accessories, revenue was $8.1 billion, down 2% from a year ago. Apple Watch is empowering users to live a healthier day with a range of tools to take charge of their wellness journeys. At the core of Apple Watch, are powerful AI features that are helping users get help when they need it most, from irregular heart rhythm notifications to walking steadiness to crash detection and fall detection. I've heard time and again how meaningful these features are for users and their loved ones, and their stories motivate us to keep pushing forward on this vital work. As I mentioned earlier, in services, we set an all-time revenue record of $24.2 billion with paid subscriptions climbing to an all-time high. We achieve revenue records in the majority of the services categories with all-time revenue records in advertising, cloud, and payment services. Apple TV+ productions are delighting audiences on screens large and small. We're sharing powerful works of imagination with series and movies like Presumed Innocent, the Upcoming Disclaimer, and The Instigators starring Matt Damon. And we can't wait for returning fan favorites with new seasons of The Morning Show, Slow Horses, and Severance. Apple TV+ productions also continue to earn accolades with nearly 2,300 nominations and 500 wins to-date. That includes 72 Emmy Award nominations across 16 programs our best ever showing for the upcoming awards event. During the quarter, we also expanded Tap to Pay on iPhone to more markets including Japan, Canada, Italy, and Germany, enabling more businesses to use the power of iPhone to accept contactless payments. And we announced new updates to our services coming this fall, including US national park hikes and custom walk routes and Apple Maps, the ability to pay with rewards using Apple Pay, collaborative listening with Apple Music, and a redesigned Apple Fitness+ experience to help users make the most of our library of workouts and meditations. Turning to retail, we continue to expand in emerging markets with our first ever location in Malaysia. Customers from all over the country came together with our team members to celebrate this special moment. Elsewhere in the world, our teams have been sharing the magic of Apple Vision Pro and demos that delight, inspire, and deeply move customers exploring the wonders of spatial computing for the first time. At the heart of all of our innovations are the values that guide everything we do. We believe fundamentally that the best technology is technology that works for everyone. And in honor of Global Accessibility Awareness Day, we introduced all new capabilities to give users more ways to take advantage of all our products can do. These include eye tracking for users to control iPhone or iPad visually, music haptics to give those who are deaf or hard of hearing a tangible way to experience music, and vocal shortcuts that tie task to a user's voice. And we are committed as ever to shipping products that offer the highest standards of privacy for our users. With everything we do, whether it's offering a browser like Safari that prevents third-parties from tracking you across the internet or providing new features like the ability to lock and hide apps, we are determined to keep our users in control of their own data. And we are just as dedicated to ensuring the security of our users' data. That's why we work to minimize the amount of data we collect and work to maximize how much is processed directly on people's devices, a foundational principle that is at the core of all we build, including Apple Intelligence. And we continue to make significant progress on the environment. We are proud to say that all of our data centers, including those that will run private cloud compute, operate on 100% renewable energy. At Apple, we're constantly accelerating our pace of innovation. We are a company in relentless pursuit of big ideas. Time and again, we've seen how a spark of creativity can reach breakthrough velocity, reach across previously unexplored dimensions, and ultimately take flight in ways that can change the world. It's why we're going to keep investing in the meaningful innovation that enriches the lives of all of our customers. We have a busy time ahead of us, and I couldn't be more excited for all the amazing things yet to come.

Maestri: Thank you, Tim, and good afternoon, everyone. We are very pleased to report a new June quarter revenue record of $85.8 billion, up 5% year-over-year, despite 230 basis points of negative foreign exchange impact. We achieved growth in the vast majority of our markets, with June quarter revenue records in the Americas, Europe, and rest of Asia Pacific. Products revenue was $61.6 billion, up 2% year-over-year, driven by the launch of the new iPad Pro and iPad Air. Our installed base of active devices reach an all-time high across all products and geographic segments, thanks to our unmatched levels of customer satisfaction and loyalty and a large number of customers who are new to our products. Services revenue reached an all-time record of $24.2 billion, up 14% year-over-year, with an all-time record in developed markets and a June quarter record in emerging markets. Company gross margin was 46.3% near the high end of our guidance range and down 30 basis points sequentially driven by a different mix within products which was partially offset by a favorable mix shift towards services and cost savings. Products gross margin was 35.3%, down 130 basis points sequentially, primarily driven by mix, partially offset by favorable costs. Services gross margin was 74% down 60 basis points from last quarter. Operating expenses of $14.3 billion were at the low end of the guidance range we provided and up 7% year-over-year. Net income was $21.4 billion, diluted EPS of $1.40 was up 11% year-over-year and set a June quarter record. And operating cash flow was very strong at $28.9 billion, also a June quarter record. Let me get into more detail for each of our revenue categories. iPhone revenue was $39.3 billion, down 1% year-over-year, but grew on a constant currency basis. We set June quarter records across several countries, including the UK, Spain, Poland, Mexico, Indonesia, and the Philippines. And the iPhone Active installed base grew to a new all-time high in total and in every geographic segment. During the June quarter, many iPhone models were among the top selling smartphones around the world. In fact, according to a survey from Kantar, iPhone was the top selling model in the US, urban China, the UK, Germany, Australia, and Japan. Customer satisfaction on the iPhone 15 family continues to be extremely high, with 451 Research measuring it at 98% in the US in their latest reports. Mac generated $7 billion in revenue, up 2% year-over-year, driven by the MacBook Air powered by the M3 chip. We saw particularly strong performance in our emerging markets, with June quarter records for Mac in Latin America, India, and South Asia. The Mac installed base reached an all-time high with half of MacBook Air customers in the quarter being new to Mac. And customer satisfaction for Mac was recently reported at 96% in the US. iPad revenue was $7.2 billion, up 24% year-over-year, driven by the launch of the new iPad Pro and iPad Air. Customers are loving the latest iPad lineup for its new design and display, unparalleled performance, AI capabilities and much more. The iPad install base has continued to grow and is an all-time high, as half of the customers who purchased iPads during the quarter were new to the product. Also, customer satisfaction was recently measured at 97% in the US. Wearables, home and accessories revenue was $8.1 billion, down 2% year-over-year, a sequential acceleration from the March quarter. Watch and AirPods continue to face a difficult compare against prior year launches of the AirPods Pro second generation, the Watch SE and the first Watch Ultra. Apple Watch continues to attract new customers, with almost two-thirds of customers purchasing an Apple Watch during the quarter being new to the product, sending the Apple Watch install base to a new all-time high. And the latest reports from 451 Research indicate a customer satisfaction of 97% for watch in the US. In services, total revenue reached an all-time record of $24.2 billion, growing 14% year-over-year. We continue to have great momentum in services, as the growth of our installed base of active devices, sets a strong foundation for the future expansion of our ecosystem. And we see increased customer engagement with our services offerings. Both transacting accounts and paid accounts reach a new all-time high with paid accounts growing double digits year-over-year. Also, paid subscriptions showed strong double digit growth. We have well over 1 billion paid subscriptions across the services on our platform, more than double the number that we had only four years ago. And we are constantly focused on improving the breadth and quality of our services. From critically acclaimed new content on Apple TV+ to new games on Apple Arcade and the many latest features we previewed during WWDC for iCloud, Apple Pay, Apple Cash, Apple Music, and more. Turning to enterprise, we continue to see businesses, leveraging our entire suite of products to drive productivity and creativity for their teams and customers. USAA, a leading insurance and financial services company, recently expanded beyond their existing iPhone and iPad deployments to provide their employees with the latest MacBook Air. And American Express has continued to add to their fleet of over 10,000 Macs to enhance their employees' productivity, security, and collaboration. We're also excited to see leading organizations such as Boston Children's Hospital and Lufthansa using Apple Vision Pro to build innovative spatial computing experiences to transform the training of their workforces. Let me now turn to our cash position and capital return program. We ended the quarter with $153 billion in cash and marketable securities. We repaid $4.3 billion in maturing debt and increased commercial paper by $1 billion, leaving us with total debt of $101 billion. As a result, net cash was $52 billion at the end of the quarter. During the quarter, we returned over $32 billion to shareholders, including $3.9 billion in dividends and equivalents and $26 billion through open market repurchases of 139 million Apple shares. As we move ahead into the September quarter, I'd like to review our outlook, which includes the types of forward-looking information that Suhasini referred to at the beginning of the call. The color we are providing today assumes that the macroeconomic outlook doesn't worsen from what we are projecting today for the current quarter. We expect foreign exchange to continue to be a headwind and to have a negative impact on revenue of about 1.5 percentage points on a year-over-year basis. We expect our September quarter total company revenue to grow year-over-year at a rate similar to the June quarter. We expect services revenue to grow double digits at a rate similar to what we reported in the first three quarters of this fiscal year. We expect gross margin to be between 45.5% and 46.5%. We expect OpEx to be between $14.2 billion and $14.4 billion. We expect OI&E to be around negative $50 million, excluding any potential impact from the mark to market of minority investments, and our tax rate to be around 16.5%. Finally, today our Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.25 per share of common stock payable on August 15, 2024, to shareholders of record as of August 12, 2024.

Maestri: Yes, Amit, it is Luca. It's a combination of a number of factors. The installed base growth is very important of course, because we have a larger pool of customers that uses the ecosystem and uses our Services. We are seeing and we've seen this consistently for many, many quarters now. We see continued growth in the level of engagement that our customers have with our ecosystem. We have more transacting accounts every quarter, so more people using the ecosystem both the free elements of the ecosystem and the paid elements. We see paid accounts growing double digits, and we've seen that for many, many quarters. Now we look at our paid subscriptions on our platform, and they are growing strong double digits as well. So obviously, the growing level of engagement helps us both from an ARPU standpoint and just a volume standpoint. Obviously, as you've seen over the last several years, we launched new services over time, and we've launched many new services, fairly recently. Obviously, our payments business is relatively new, Apple TV+, Apple Arcade, Fitness+, so many other services we've added. And so we are providing more and more opportunities for our customers to interact with the ecosystem. And we believe we are doing also a very good job at improving the quality of these services and improving the amount of content that we make available. We continue to make significant investments on TV+, on Apple Arcade. We are launching new shows, new games all the time. And I think you will continue to see that as we go forward. We are very, very happy with the 14% growth that we had this quarter because, particularly if you look at the performance that we had in Services a year ago, the compares for us tend to get a bit more challenging in the second half of our fiscal year. But in spite of that, we delivered a level of growth that was better than what we were expecting at the beginning of the quarter.

Mohan: Yes. Thank you so much. Tim, you announced Apple Intelligence, but you also announced partnerships with OpenAI and presumably more coming down the road. How should investors think about the monetization models around these partnerships where the CapEx investments are clearly being made by these potential partners. But you're obviously -- they're leveraging your distribution to your very attractive installed base. So in the long-term, do you see the Apple Intelligence part -- the Services growth from Apple Intelligence being the larger contributor over time? Or do you see these partnerships becoming a larger contributor over time?

Cook: I think the way that I look at it is that Apple Intelligence is the on-device processing and the Private Cloud Compute. And a lot of that will be things with a personal context. And then for world knowledge, we are integrating with ChatGPT initially, and that will be focused on world knowledge as I said. And so the monetization model, I don't want to get into the terms of the commercial agreements because they are confidential between the parties.

Maestri: Thank you, Michael. On the CapEx front, I've mentioned before a number of times, we have a bit of a hybrid model in the way we run our data centers. In some cases, we use our own data centers. In some cases, we use, third-party providers. So, our CapEx numbers may not be fully comparable with others. But, obviously, we are rolling out these features, Apple Intelligence features already now, and so we are making all the capacity that is needed available for these features. You will see in our 10-K the amount of CapEx that we've incurred during the course of fiscal '24, and we will -- in fiscal '25, we will continue to make all the investments that are necessary, and of course, the investments in

Woodring: Great. Thanks so much for taking my questions. I have two as well. Tim, maybe if we start with you, I think each of the last four years you've exited the December quarter with iPhone demand outpacing supply. As we look to this quarter in the iPhone 16 cycle, lead times are relatively short. There are no known supply shortages. And I'm just curious whether you've been able to maybe get a better read on early cycle iPhone demand this year relative to past years. And if so, what you've learned about upgrade rates, switching rates, trade-ups versus trading down and being more price sensitive? And overall, any impact that Apple Intelligence may have on iPhone 16 sales?

Cook: There's a lot there. On Apple Intelligence, we believe it's a compelling upgrade reason. And we'll -- but we just launched it three days ago and so what we've got now from a data point point of view is the number I just referenced that 18.1 has twice the adoption rate of 17.1. So, that clearly shows a level of interest out there. In terms of exiting the December quarter with demand greater than supply, that's not my recollection that, that happened for all four of the years. We clearly had cases during COVID where there were disruptions and that's the some spilled over, but in a more regular environment where we're not having something, a 100-year flood kind of thing, we would -- our desire is to get into balance as quickly as possible. We don't want customers having to wait for products. And so, if you look at how we've done this year, we did that very quickly on the 16, on the 16 Pro family, the Pro and the Pro Max, we've been constrained in October, but we believe that soon we'll be out of constraint. And so, that's a good sign from our point of view. Keep in mind that, that's a function of supply and demand, not one side or the other. And we've been preparing for the quarter for a while.

Woodring: Okay, thank you for that, Tim. It's helpful. And then, you know, if we just touch on China, obviously, in the news fairly frequently, if we set aside China Macro, which I understand is still challenging, can you maybe talk about the headwinds that that Apple faces, whether that's, you know, shifting preferences for Western technology brands in favor of domestic vendors, or is this just a function of not necessarily having Apple intelligence available with the iPhone 16, which is, you know, not necessarily helping replacement cycles. Just maybe double clicking on, on what you think and what you're hearing in

Cook: Yes, sure. If you look at our greater China revenue for the quarter, we were down 11% year-over-year. And over half of the decline that we experienced was driven by change in channel inventory from the beginning to the end of the quarter. And of course on the Apple intelligence side we have not rolled out in China and as we just talked about we did see better results in the markets that we had rolled out in than markets we hadn't rolled out in. And of course, it's the most competitive market in the world. And so all of those things are true. In terms of the macro situation, there was a fiscal stimulus or subsidy announced in very recently in January that did not affect the December quarter. There were some provincial subsidies in the December quarter, but the national program was announced, I believe, on January 20. And it does cover the categories that we have products in from smartphones to tablets and PCs and smart watches up to a certain, a maximum price point. And so we do see fiscal stimulus occurring and we'll be glad to talk about what that looks like on the next call.

Reitzes: Hey, guys. Thanks a lot for the question. And, hey, Tim, I wanted to ask you who -- you knew this one was coming, but there's a perception that you're a big beneficiary of lower cost of compute and I was wondering if you could give your worldly perspective here on the DeepSeek situation and if you are going to, if you, if anything's happened to change your views in terms of a tailwind to margins and your ability to execute even due to the potential for cost to come down due to that development and probably what was going to happen anyway. But I'd love your perspective on that and then have a quick follow-up.

Parekh: Yes, Amit, let me take that One. You know, as we mentioned in my remarks, we're guiding to 46.5% to 47.5%. So we think it's, you know, we're very pleased with that level of guidance. As you mentioned, there's always puts and takes. We do think there's going to be some FX headwinds, which we talked about, that's going to affect, you know, our revenue growth as well. You know, it'll have an impact here on the margin, a sequential impact on margins. But we think that's going to be offset by favorable costs and the relative mix of services. We also, as you know, when we move from Q1 to Q2, especially on the product side, because Q1 is such a large quarter for a products business, we do have a loss of leverage. So there are some puts and takes, and I think we feel good about the range.

Mohan: Yes, thank you so much. Tim, I want to follow-up on your comment about channel inventory in China. I was wondering if you could maybe address more broadly if channel inventory across your different product lines and regions? Do you feel they're elevated or out of range in any other regions? And given the clearing event that kind of happened in China, I guess in the quarter, should we think of a more normal progression quarter-on-quarter into the

Cook: Yes, I don't want to project sales for the current quarter by region, but if you if you look at the channel inventory and look at iPhone in the aggregate, so on a worldwide basis we're very comfortable with our channel inventory position in the -- in China my point was that our channel inventory reduced from the beginning of the quarter to the end of the quarter, and that was over half of the reduction in the reported results. And so if you look, part of the reason for that is that our sales were a bit higher than we forecasted them to be toward the end of the quarter.

Mohan: And then maybe as my follow-up, your services growth has been very strong and I know you've kind of been navigating some pretty challenging regulatory burdens on the business globally. So how should investors think about maybe either a top line or margin headwind that let's say you're currently absorbing in your results that could potentially maybe reverse in a more balanced regulatory environment?

Cook: Yes. If you look at Mac, Mac was up 16% and on iPad, we were up 15%. The Mac was driven by the very strong uptake on our new products during the quarter and the continued success of the MacBook Air. And so as you know, we've launched an M4-based MacBook Pro, an iMac and a Mac Mini during the quarter. We believe we've got the best AI PC out there for running workloads. The silicon in the Mac is, and it has been for several years now, designed by us and really designed for these workloads. And so I don't want to project at the category level for the future, but we're incredibly pleased with both the

Chatterjee: Okay. And Tim, I'm going to use your earlier discussion about India as a strong emerging market to sort of ask you about the supply chain planning there in terms of how much of the supply chain planning there that you're doing is more of a reflection of the growth expectations from that market relative to in terms of diversification of the supply chain? And how should we sort of think about that strategy in terms of that particular country?

Cook: Yes. If you look at the manufacturing we do there, we do manufacturing both for the domestic market, and we export. And so in -- our business needs a certain economies of scale for it to make sense to manufacture in country. And so that really means that we're going to be both a use for the domestic market and an export market.

Vogt: Great, thanks, guys, for taking my question. So maybe, Tim, this is for you. I'm trying to think about your commentary around Apple Intelligence being sort of a momentum driver for the iPhone business. But when I think about your kind of framework for the March quarter, if I kind of adjust for channel inventory over the last couple of years, kind of, feels like your iPhone revenue for the March quarter is going to be relatively similar to the quarter two years ago and even the quarter last year? So how do we square kind of the momentum versus kind of the iPhone business effectively really kind of unchanged over the last couple of years? And then second, when I think about kind of the gross margin profile of the business, obviously, you've done a great job in taking gross margins up. Where do you think we sit in terms of, on the services side at least, where margins could go? It looks like the 75% margin has been incredibly successful quarter. But just trying to get a sense for where do you think this number could go over the intermediate term?

Cook: Yes. If you look at Apple Intelligence, what my point earlier was, that markets where we had rolled out Apple Intelligence during the Q1 period performed better on a year-over-year basis than markets where we had not. And so that gives us -- it's a positive indicator that we were pleased with. There are many compelling reasons to upgrade. And the other thing I would say, that I think I mentioned earlier, is that if you look at it from a launch to the end of the December quarter, and so that goes back to September, the 16 family is outperforming the 15 family. And so I think those are two good data points. Our next round of language rollouts will be in April. And so it will be at the -- in our

===== RECORD 3 =====
Company: AbbVie
Ticker: ABBV
Sector: Health Care
Industry: Biotechnology
Transcript Count: 38
Filtered Turn Count: 301
Matched Keywords: bottleneck, capacity, delay, delays, depend on, depends on, distribution, inventory, manufacturing, manufacturing capacity, network, operational, operations, plant, plants, procurement, produced, rely on, shipment, shipments, shipping, supplier, suppliers, supply chain, warehouse, warehousing

Gonzalez: Jeff, this is Rick on the tender question. Well, as you know, the U.S. is a big part of this market, which isn’t a tender-driven kind of market, and then obviously a lot of the major European countries would be the other significant part, and Japan. So if you look at pure tenders across the G7, it will be a relatively small percentage of the overall revenue in this market as it exists today. Jeff Holford –

Stanley: Yes, thanks very much. Good morning. I have a number of questions but I’ll try to just ask three, if that is okay. The first is relatively straightforward, just a simple numbers question. IMS has been reporting mid to high single digit TRX growth for Humira in the U.S. in the first quarter. Could you just break down the reported 25% U.S. Humira sales growth to give us some better perspective on underlying demand as you see it, in case the IMS TRX growth is misleading, and then also on price and any inventory stocking. Second, with respect to HCV on pricing, maybe Rick, you could just give us your thoughts at a high level about how competitive one needs to be on price in a duopoly. I would think that in the initial duopoly, it would make little sense to price aggressively when you have just one competitor, but just wanted to get your perspective on that. Then third, with respect to HCV diagnosis, I think the HCV bulls are talking about significant diagnosis increases in the U.S., but I don’t have a good perspective on what the real numbers are. So maybe you could talk about the number diagnosed in terms of whatever number you have recently, and how that number is really going to grow annually in the next three years. We think about the number diagnosed in the United States growing in the low single digit percentage annually or mid-single digit percentage.

Chase: So David, it’s Bill Chase. I’ll start with your Humira question. As you pointed out, the IMS scripts on Humira are high single digit. The numbers we see are actually a little higher than that typically on an annual basis. This thing is doing high single to low double digits, and then obviously you’ve seen it when we’ve taken price increases, so price does remain a component of the U.S. growth. Inventories – we try to minimize fluctuations from quarter to quarter on inventories as much as we possibly can. In both the fourth quarter and the first quarter, Humira inventories were about half a year. There were some impacts—half a month, rather, I’m sorry. There were some impacts in the first quarter of 2013 but that was maybe four to five points on the growth altogether. This is a brand that continues to perform very, very strongly in the U.S. You saw the numbers last year and certainly we expect continued performance this year. David Risinger –

Brun: Colin, it’s Scott. I’ll go ahead and take the 199 question. So with regard to speculating on post-approval monitoring, obviously a little bit early but as we’ve said today, we’ve been able to successfully remove the requirement for hospitalization for both the low and medium risk patients, which accounts for the majority of the patients, be it either first line or later line. We’re going to continue with hospitalization for the time being on the high risk patients, which as you said are those with the bulkier tumors, but as we include more data on those patients, we’re going to continue to see how we can refine any requirements for that type of monitoring. So I just think we need some more patients under our belts for us to be able to really say what it’s going to look like at the time of launch.

Gonzalez: Colin, this is Rick. I’ll cover the hep-C one. We’re obviously pretty early into this launch, so it’s a little difficult, I think, to project off of one quarter. I’d say it is relatively consistent with how we modeled it. If you go back to the initial PI launches, what you saw was some de-warehousing occurring and then in the first quarter or two it was high, and then it started to flatten out a bit and come down a little bit. So if you think through that and you say that was a model that you wanted to follow, that ultimately you might see it peak, come down, flatten out a bit and then you see another peak occur with the launch of all orals where you see more de-warehousing occur. But at this point, you’re looking at one quarter, you’re looking at one data point, so it’s a little hard to model against that; but I wouldn’t say it was out of the realm of what we anticipated. As far as capacity is concerned, I think we’ve talked before about the capacity. We do anticipate that there will be some expansion of capacity with all oral coming into the marketplace, so I think we will see, particularly in the United States, some expansion of capacity going forward, so we will see more patients being able to be treated by the time those products get to the marketplace.

S: Yes. Can you talk about the PARP and the market, and how you view your product in comparison to the other products?

Gonzalez: Thank you, Larry. Good morning and thank you for joining us this morning. We’re pleased to report a strong second quarter result with adjusted earnings per share of $0.82, exceeding our guidance range for the quarter. This included sales growth of nearly 5% also ahead of our outlook for the quarter despite the positive impact from loss of exclusivity in our lipid franchise. Sales growth was led by continued robust performance from HUMIRA and other key products including Synthroid, Sevoflurane and Duodopa. We have been pleased with our performance in the first-half of the year and as a reminder last month we raised our full year 2014 earnings per share guidance range to $3.06 to $3.16 on an adjusted basis, reflecting strong underlying business performance. Beyond our strong financial performance we had a very productive second quarter with a number of important pipeline advancements, clinical trial results and other strategic activities. We submitted our U.S. and EU regulatory applications for interferon-free HCV combination. Both applications are currently under active priority review. We continue to anticipate U.S. approval later this year and EMA authorization in early 2015. We are also working to advance our Next-Generation HCV assets which are currently in Phase 2 development. We expect data from the Phase 2/b program in 2015 and plan to start Phase 3 development next year as well. We have also made progress with several assets in our oncology pipeline. At the recent ASCO and EHA meetings we presented interim-results from our Phase 1 clinical trial of ABT-199 our BCL-2 inhibitor in combination with Rituxan in relapsed refractory CLL patients. The data showed an overall response rate of 84% and a complete response of 36% which compares favorably to trial results from other therapies in this patient population. This combination is being investigated in an ongoing Phase 3 clinical trial for the treatment of relapsed refractory CLL. We are also evaluating ABT-199 in a variety of other cancer types including AML. We expect to present data from the AML study at an upcoming medical meeting. Also at ASCO AbbVie released preliminary results from an ongoing Phase 1 study of ABT-414 an anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody drug conjugate used in combination with chemotherapy. The study showed a level of response not typically seen in patients with recurrent or unresectable GBM. GBM is the most common and most aggressive type of malignant primary brain tumor. Patients currently have few treatment options and the five year survival rate for this type of cancer is less than 3%. We are working quickly to advance ABT-414. We recently announce the initiation of a Phase 3 study of our PARP inhibitor ABT-888 in patients with HER2 negative breast cancer containing BRCA gene mutations. The start of this trial follows initiation of Phase 3 clinical work in two other settings; non-small cell cancer and neoadjuvant treatment of triple negative breast cancer. This fall we will present data from the mid-stage trial on lung cancer that supported our decision to advance the Phase 3 development. We have a number of other mid-stage trials that we expect to read out in the coming months. In June we announced positive top line results from our Phase 3 daclizumab study. It demonstrated that patients treated with daclizumab had a statistically significant 45% reduction in annualized relapsed rates versus on active comparator. We are excited about these results and we are in the process of working with our partner to complete our global regulatory application. In our immunology pipeline we recently advanced two bispecific DVDs in to Phase 2 development; ABT-122 for RA and ABT-981 for OA. Additionally, we continue to make progress on our selective JAK-1 inhibitor programs. We recently initiated a second Phase 2 trial in RA with our internal JAK-1 compound ABT-494 and we look forward to seeing data from the Phase 2/b Galapagos collaboration early next year. Since becoming an independent company 18 months ago AbbVie has built a strong and sustainable strategy for the business. Last week we announced an important step in taking that strategy to the next level, the proposed merger with Shire. The combination of AbbVie and Shire represent a compelling opportunity to create a new world-class biopharmaceutical company. The combined company would have leadership positions within multiple important areas of medicine, a deeper and broader pipeline and greater access to its global cash flows. This transaction offers significant strategic and financial benefits for our respective shareholders and companies as well as the patients that we serve. The combined company would be larger more diversified company with significant financial capacity for future strategic investment. Additionally the proposed combination offers an opportunity for enhanced shareholder return of capital and shareholder value creation. We’re currently seeking the relevant approvals for the transaction and are working towards our stated goal of closing in the fourth quarter of 2014. In summary we’re very pleased with the strong performance we’ve had in the first half of 2014. In the second quarter we saw strong performance across our portfolio, including double-digit growth from Humira, We made significant progress advancing our pipeline and expect a number of additional milestones over the next six to nine months. And with the recent agreement to merge with Shire I believe we’ve taken an important strategic action to enhance our position as a world class biopharmaceutical company. With that I’ll turn the call over to Bill. Bill?

Chase: Thank you Rick. This morning I’ll review our second quarter performance and provide an update on our outlook for the remainder of 2014. As Rick said we are very pleased with our results this quarter. We exceeded our guidance on both the top and bottom line. Total sales increased 4.8% on an operational basis, excluding 0.2% favorable impact from foreign exchange. Excluding sales from our lipid franchise, due to loss of exclusivity total sales increased 12.3% on an operational basis. Humira delivered global sales of nearly $3.3 billion, up 25.4% on an operational basis and 26.2% on a reported basis. In the United States Humira sales increased 35.6% driven by continued market expansion, share gains and particularly strong growth in the gastro segment. Growth in the second quarter also benefited from retail buying patterns and a favorable comparison to the prior year. Second quarter wholesaler inventory levels remain at roughly two weeks consistent with the first quarter. We expect third quarter Humira sales growth in the U.S. to be reflective of underlying product demand and pricing trends, partially offset by a reduction in retail buying patterns. As a result we are forecasting high teens growth in the U.S. for Humira in the third quarter. Internationally Humira sales grew 16.2% on an operational basis and 17.8% on a reported basis. International growth continues to be driven by the uptake of new indications, share gains and double digit market growth in most markets. Performance in the quarter also benefited modestly from the timing of international shipments. We are forecasting low double digit growth for Humira internationally in the third quarter driven by strong underlying trends, partially offset by the timing of shipments in international markets. On a global basis we continue to expect double digit sales growth for Humira in 2014. AndroGel sales were $218 million, down 15.6% from the prior year quarter. We continue to see a notable slowdown in the market with overall prescriptions down more than 20% in recent months. We expect these market trends to continue. U.S. sales of Synthroid were $166 million, up 8.7% year-over-year. Synthroid maintain strong brand loyalty and market leadership despite the entry of generics into the market many years ago. The overall market has experienced low-single digit growth with Synthroid growth outpacing the market including product pricing trends. U.S. CREON sales were $110 million in the quarter, up 4.1%. CREON maintains its leadership position in the pancreatic enzyme market where the product continues to capture the vast majority of new prescription starts. Global Lupron sales were $186 million in the quarter, down 5.2% on an operational basis. Lupron continues to hold a leadership position and maintain significant share of the market. Performance this quarter is roughly in line with our full year expectation and is also consistent with recent market trends. Sales of Synagis were $74 million in the second quarter up 16.3% on an operational basis. Synagis which protects at risk infants from severe respiratory disease is a seasonal product with the majority of sales in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Growth in the quarter was driven by continued product uptake and strong commercial execution. Sales of Duodopa our therapy for advanced Parkinson’s disease approved in Europe and other international markets were $56 million, up 24.2% on an operational basis this quarter. Performance in the quarter is in line with recent trends as well as our full year outlook for the product. And sales of Niaspan and TriCor /Trilipix were both down significantly due to generic competition. We expect these trends to continue for the remainder of 2014. I will now turn to the P&L profile for the second quarter. The adjusted gross margin ratio was 79.6% in line with our expectations. This reflects loss of exclusivity in our lipid franchise offset by favorable mix impacts across the portfolio and margin enhancing initiatives we’ve implemented. Adjusted R&D was 16.1% of sales in the second quarter. R&D spending was up sequentially over the first quarter as we increased funding of our mid and late stage pipeline assets and additional Humira indications. Adjusted SG&A was 27.1% of sales in the second quarter. As expected SG&A spending increased from the first quarter, reflecting continued investment on our growth brands and preparations for our upcoming HCV launch. Net interest expense was $69 million and the adjusted tax rate was 22.2% in the quarter. Second quarter adjusted earnings per share, excluding non-cash amortization expense and specified items were $0.82 exceeding our previous guidance range of $0.75 to $0.77. On a GAAP basis earnings per share were $0.68. Moving on to our outlook for the remainder of 2014, for the full year we are confirming our recently increased adjusted earnings per share guidance of $3.06 to $3.16. For the third quarter we expect adjusted earnings per share of $0.77 to $0.79. We are forecasting low to mid-single digit operational sales growth in both the third and fourth quarters of 2014. As a reminder our 2014 outlook excludes any potential revenue from the expected 2014 U.S. launch of our HCV therapy. We expect the third quarter gross margin ratio to be approximately 79%. For the fourth quarter the ratio is expected to be somewhat lower than the third quarter driven by product mix particularly an increase in lower margin Synagis sales. As noted on our fourth quarter earnings call in January we are forecasting a higher level of SG&A expense in 2014 driven primarily by investments we are making for the upcoming launch of our HCV regimen in the U.S. and Europe. For the third quarter we expect a modest sequential increase in absolute SG&A expense from the second quarter. For the fourth quarter given the proximity of the U.S. HCV launch we’d expect a more meaningful sequential increase in absolute SG&A expense from the third quarter level. This has been reflected in our recently increased adjusted earnings per share guidance. We currently have a significant number of Phase 3 programs in active development including exciting opportunities in oncology, HCV immunology and other areas that warrant investment. As a result we expect R&D expense to be above 16% of sales for the full year 2014 reflecting a meaningful increase in the spending over the prior year. For the third quarter we expect a sequential increase in absolute R&D investment from the second quarter level. For the fourth quarter we are forecasting a more modest sequential increase from the third quarter level. This has been reflected in our recently increased adjusted earnings per share guidance. So overall we’re pleased with our strong quarter performance in the second quarter as well as our outlook for the remainder of 2014. And with that I’ll turn it back over to

Gonzalez: Thank you, Larry. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us. During today’s call, I’ll spend a few minutes on our strong results in the quarter as well as our performance since we launched as an independent company. I’ll also discuss our pipeline advancement including forthcoming data and other milestones. I’ll then turn the call over to Bill who will provide additional color regarding the quarter and our outlook for the remainder of the year. We’ll also make sure we leave enough time for your questions. Since launching AbbVie 22 months ago, we are focused on driving strong performance, creating shareholder value and building a robust pipeline to derive future growth. To that end, we have delivered a total shareholder return of more than 90%, representing $40 billion of shareholder value creation. Today, we reported robust third quarter results with adjusted earnings per share of $0.89, significantly exceeding our guidance range for the quarter. This included operational sales growth of more than 8%, also ahead of our outlook for the quarter. We drove this performance with double-digit growth across a number of products including, HUMIRA, Synagis, Synthroid, Duodopa and Creon. In the quarter, we also delivered improvements in gross margin and continued to invest in the business for future growth. And for the second time this year, we significantly raised our full-year EPS guidance range for 2014, reflecting the robust performance of our underlying business and positive trends we expect through the remainder of the year. This guidance reflects EPS growth for 2014 despite the headwinds created by the loss of exclusivity in our lipids franchise. Our results demonstrate the strength and sustainability of our portfolio and they underscore our continued focus and execution. Our third quarter results were led by HUMIRA, which delivered, nearly 18% global operational growth. HUMIRA’s performance was driven by several factors including continued market growth resulting from increasing penetration across therapeutic categories and geographies. As we’ve indicated in the past, HUMIRA’s broad label and new indications are a competitive advantage. We recently reported positive results from our Phase 3 studies of HUMIRA in HS, a chronic inflammatory skin disease that currently has no approved treatment options. We’re on track to submit our U.S. and European regulatory applications for HS this year. We’ve also spent the last several years, developing and implementing a strategy that we believe will protect and grow our leadership position in immunology including product enhancements and intellectual property. And behind HUMIRA we have a number of promising immunology assets and development. As a result, we are confident in our strategies to defend our position across our immunology categories. Our interferon-free HCV therapy represents another exciting vehicle for strong growth. We’re on the cusp of approval with the regulatory reviews progressing very well. We’re actively engaged with regulators on various fronts and have completed our pre-approval manufacturing and clinical inspections. As we said at a healthcare conference last month, we do not expect that an advisory committee meeting will be required prior to U.S. approval. In anticipation of U.S. commercialization by year-end and European approval in early 2015, we’ve built the appropriate infrastructure and are fully prepared for our launch. Our next generation HCV program also continues to progress well. We’re currently conducting Phase 2b studies and expect to transition the Phase 3 development in 2015. Beyond HCV, we have a robust pipeline of promising development programs. These programs stand especially therapeutic areas and include both biologics and small molecules. All told, we have more than 40 active clinical development programs underway, this includes 12 products in Phase 3 development or currently under regulatory review. We have a high level of enthusiasm in our oncology pipeline, which includes 10 new molecular entities being studied in more than 55 clinical trials. In collaboration with Roche, we will present additional data on ABT-199 at an upcoming medical meeting, including Phase 1 data on AML and early data from a trial combining ABT-199 with Gazyva. We’ll also see data from a large single-agent study in relapsed refractory CLL patients with 17-p dilution in early 2015. As a reminder, if the data warn and regulatory authorities agree to ABT-199, addresses an unmet medical need in this patient population. These data have the potential to support an early pathway to registration. Veliparib is our PARP inhibitor in development for a wide range of solid tumors. Over the past year, we have initiated four pivotal studies. This includes Phase 3 trials in neoadjuvant breast cancer BRCA breast cancer and most recently two studies in non-small cell lung cancer than include patients with squamous and non-squamous cancers. We’re also excited about ABT-414, our anti-EGFR monoclonal antibody drug conjugate being evaluated in combination with Chemotherapy for glioblastoma multiforme, the most common and most aggressive type of malignant primary brain tumor. We were recently granted orphaned drug designation for ABT-414 by the EMA and FDA. And we are moving aggressively to start a Phase 2 study in patients with GBM by early next year. Also on our late stage development on Oncology pipeline is elotuzumab in partnership with Bristol-Myers Squibb for multiple myeloma. Results from the pivotal trial in relapsed refractory multiple myeloma patients are expected in early 2015. Our late stage neuroscience pipeline includes daclizumab and Duopa. Daclizumab is in development for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. Despite advances in the MS category, there continues to be a significant need for novel, high-efficacy agents with favorable benefit risk profiles. And we believe Daclizumab has the potential to be an important therapy in this large and growing market. We presented promising pivotal trial data earlier this year, which demonstrated patients treated with daclizumab had a statistically significant 45% reduction in annualized relapse rates versus Avonex. We have begun to engage with global regulatory authorities and are working with our partner to complete our regulatory applications in the first half of 2015. Duopa, is AbbVie’s novel therapy for advanced Parkinson’s disease. It is currently under regulatory review in the U.S. with an FDA action expected in early 2015. Elagolix is our compound in Phase 3 development for endometriosis and Phase 2b for uterine fibroids. We continue to expect to see initial data from the first of two pivotal studies in endometriosis later this year and plan to report top line data shortly thereafter. We also see data from the mid-stage program in uterine fibroids next year as well. As I mentioned, we have a number of promising immunology assets in development, including oral selective JAK1 inhibitors, several biologics and two by specific biologics currently in mid-stage trials. We expect to see data from the selective JAK1 inhibitors next year, allowing us to make a decision regarding Phase 3 development. In summary, we delivered excellent performance in the quarter and our pipeline continues to evolve. We’re on the verge of a number of important milestones including the commercialization of our interferon-free HCV combination and we’re prepared for a successful launch. AbbVie is poised to deliver top-tier performance including strong sales and earnings growth beginning in 2015. We have a high degree of confidence in our strategy and our performance. With that, I’ll turn the call over to Bill for a more detailed view of our results. Bill?

Chase: Thank you, Rick. This morning I’ll review our third quarter performance and provide an update on our outlook for the remainder of 2014. This was another very strong quarter for AbbVie as we exceeded our guidance on both the top and bottom line. Total sales increased 8.3% on an operational basis, excluding 0.5% on favorable impact from foreign exchange. HUMIRA delivered global sales of more than $3.2 billion up 17.8% operationally and up 17.5% on a reported basis. In the United States, HUMIRA sales increased 25.3% driven by continued market expansion, strong prescription trends and share gains partially offset by a reduction in retail buying patterns. Internally, HUMIRA sales grew 10.3% on an operational basis excluding a 0.6% unfavorable impact from exchange. International growth was driven by strong underlying trends including the uptake of new indications and share gains but was partially offset by the timing of shipments in international markets. We continue to see double-digit market growth for HUMIRA in most international markets. Certainly we are well on track to significantly exceed our original full-year guidance for HUMIRA. AndroGel sales were $232 million, down 6.7% from the prior year quarter. We continue to see a notable slowdown in the market with overall prescriptions down significantly. However, we did gain share from competitors during the quarter and benefited somewhat from favorable pricing trends. U.S. sales of Synthroid were $200 million, up 24.3% year-over-year. Synthroid maintained strong brand loyalty and market leadership despite the entry of generics into the market many years ago. The overall market has experienced low-single digit growth with Synthroid growth outpacing the market including product pricing trends. Global Lupron sales were $196 million in the quarter, up 0.4% on an operational basis. Lupron continues to hold a leadership position and maintain significant share of the market. U.S. CREON sales were $148 million in the quarter, up 47.6%. CREON maintains its leadership position in the pancreatic enzyme market where the product continues to capture the vast majority of new prescription starts. Growth in the quarter benefited from a favorable comparison to the prior year quarter. Sales of Synagis were $109 million in the third quarter up 18.3% on an operational basis. Synagis which protects at risk infants from severe respiratory disease is a seasonal product with the majority of sales in the first and fourth quarters of the year. Growth in the quarter was driven by continued product uptake and strong commercial execution. Sales of Duodopa on our therapy for advanced Parkinson’s disease approved in Europe and other international markets were $56 million, up 20.8% on an operational basis this quarter. Performance is in line with recent trends as well as our full year outlook for the product. And sales in our lipid franchise were down significantly due to generic competition. We expect these trends to continue for the remainder of 2014. I’ll now turn to the P&L profile for the third quarter. The adjusted gross margin ratio was 81.1% somewhat above our expectations and up 140 basis points year-over-year. This reflects the loss of exclusivity in our lipid franchise offset by favorable mix impacts across the portfolio as well as and margin enhancing initiatives we’ve implemented. Adjusted SG&A was 26.4% of sales in the third quarter, up more than 9% year-over-year reflecting continued investment in our growth brands and preparations for our upcoming HCV launch. Adjusted R&D was 16.2% of sales in the third quarter up more than 14% versus the prior year quarter. As expected our absolute R&D investment was up sequentially over the second quarter as we increased funding of our mid and late stage pipeline assets and additional HUMIRA indications. Adjusted net interest expense was $53 million and the adjusted tax rate was 22.4% in the quarter. Third quarter adjusted earnings per share, excluding non-cash intangible amortization expense and specified items were $0.89 well above our previous guidance range of $0.77 to $0.79. On a GAAP basis earnings per share were $0.31. You will recall that in early September we updated our third quarter and full year GAAP EPS guidance to reflect upfront payments related to the infinity and calico agreements which were treated as specified items. Also in accordance with the final regulations issued to the pharmaceutical industry in the third quarter by the IRS, AbbVie has booked an additional year of its branded prescription drug fee which we have treated as a specified item. By way of background, starting in 2011, the pharma industry was acquired under the affordable care act to begin paying a fee based on branded prescription drugs sold to the U.S. government. During the third quarter of this year, the IRS issued final regulations which changed the recognition of the fee from the period in which the fee was paid to the period for which the fee is owed. As a result, the industry is now required from an accounting perspective to recognize in 2014 one additional year of the fee. There is no cash flow impact of this one-time adjustment. Due to the timing of the termination of the Shire transaction, the majority of one-time costs related to that event were reflected in our fourth quarter results. Moving on to our outlook for the remainder of the year, this morning we significantly raised our adjusted EPS guidance for 2014. We now expect adjusted earnings per share guidance of $3.25 to $3.27. As a reminder, our 2014 outlook continues to exclude any potential revenue from the expected 2014 U.S. launch of our HCV therapy. Our revised GAAP guidance for the year includes the full impact of the Shire transaction costs. Given our strong product performance, we now expect sales to exceed $19.5 billion in 2014. We’re forecasting an adjusted gross margin ratio of approximately 79% for the year reflecting product mix and actions we’ve taken to further improve our margin profile. We expect full year R&D expense to be somewhat above 16% of sales as we continue to advance our late stage pipeline. And we expect SG&A expense of around 27% of sales in 2014. We are forecasting net interest expense of about $250 million for the full year, and we continue to expect an adjusted tax rate just above 22%. As you know, our business generates significant cash flow and we expect this to grow in 2015 and beyond with new product introductions. As a result, we announced last week that AbbVie’s quarterly dividend will be increased by more than 16% to $0.49 beginning with the dividend payable in February 2015. We intend to maintain our strong commitment to a growing dividend going forward. And we disclosed a new $5 billion share buyback program to be executed over the next several years, further reflecting our commitment to return cash to shareholders. So, overall, we’re very pleased with our strong third quarter performance as well as our outlook for the remainder of 2014. And with that I’ll turn it back over to

Peepo: Thanks Bill. We’ll now open the call for questions. Elon, we’ll take our first question please.

Gonzalez: Well Jami, this is Rick. So, first I’d say on the expectations for ‘15 and beyond, obviously we’re not going to give guidance out multiple years. But I think I can frame it this way for you. If you look at what we expect to be able to deliver out of our pipeline including HCV and other assets like 199, we have a high level of confidence that we can continue to drive strong growth over the long-term. As far as the bio-similar impact is concerned, obviously that’s something we have looked at and we have carefully analyzed and we’ve had now a number of years to put a strategy in place that we believe will protect in HUMIRA, through that period of time. And so we’ve obviously modeled what that looks like and I can tell you we have confidence in what we can do in that area. I’m not going to give you a lot more specifics on that at this point. We’ve described in detail what it looks like it is a combination of three major areas, product enhancements, both, formulation as well as device, intellectual property and commercial strategies. And this is a market we understand well. And as I said, I think we have planned this out very well. And I think we have a high level of confidence in our ability to be able to execute that strategy in the face of bio-similar competition. There will be a time where we can give you more color I know this isn’t very satisfying to you. There will be a time where we can give you more color this just is not the time to be able to do that. We have to make sure that we have planned this out appropriately. And so, in the future we will be able to give you a little more detail around that. As it relates to Hepatitis C, what I would tell you is this. If you look at the Hep C market and HCV for us, it’s a very exciting opportunity. And I would tell you it’s a very important opportunity for AbbVie. So, let me say, in the backdrop of we’re getting very close to entering the U.S. market once we’re approved, it wouldn’t be prudent for us to provide a lot of specific details around our commercial strategy or go-to-market strategy. But what I can do is I think frame for you, how we think about the competition in the marketplace, how we think about the marketplace. I’m not going to provide an expectation at this point but I’ll give you some perspective I think. As we said many times before, we believe the clinical performance of our product across all patient types is very strong. And it’s especially strong in the psoriatic and difficult to treat patients. And we believe that will be an important factor in how we compete in the marketplace. We believe relapse rates and SPRs are important. We still don’t believe that minor differences in pill count or shorter duration of therapy in certain patients will significantly change the competitive dynamics in this marketplace. In fact I tell you, in our interactions with many KOLs, they indicate that they’re going with 12 weeks of therapy in patients to minimize the risk of relapse in those patients. As far as the market is concerned to the point you made, we see the market as being even more attractive than we thought about it a year ago. It’s certainly bigger than we thought, it’s far more receptive to high curate therapies that are highly tolerable and the market wants alternatives, that’s clear. So, I can tell you, we feel very good about our ability to compete in this market and create meaningful share for our product. As I said, I’m not going to go through a lot of specifics around the commercial strategy until we’ve launched. Last thing I’d say is, as you know, the 2014 guidance we provided excludes any HCV revenues. So, it’s not counting on any HCV revenues, whenever we get an HCV we’ll obviously be upside. But certainly when we provide 2015 guidance and product specific detail, at that point we will provide you with what our expectation is for HCV for 2015. Thanks. Jami Rubin –

Stanley: Yes. Thanks very much. So I missed a little bit of the call. I just wanted to ask a couple of questions about some of the select product upside. I guess specifically maybe you could just make an overall comment on whether inventory levels changed at AbbVie between the end of the second quarter and the end of the third quarter, i.e. was there a buy-in or buy-out for the company overall? And then second, were there any buy-ins for any select products of note? And then third, with respect to Kaletra ex-U.S., I don’t know if you commented but that was unusually strong. Could you just explain that revenue number in the quarter and what we should think about for the fourth quarter head sequentially?

Chase: David, its Bill Chase. So, inventory I’ll discuss in really two different pieces. You’ve got inventory at wholesalers and then obviously you’ve got inventory in the retail chain. At the wholesale level, our inventories across all products in the U.S. was roughly consistent between quarter two and quarter three. The retail channels are little tougher to call as you know. In Q2, we did see some speculative buying in advance of the price increase around HUMIRA. We think some of that buying came out in Q3, although obviously it didn’t mute the overall performance of the brand to a meaningful extent. But in general, at the wholesale level everything was consistent quarter-to-quarter. From a Kaletra ex-U.S. standpoint, that product is subject to some volatility based on tender timing. And you saw that in the third quarter. I think in the long-term outlook for this brand is probably somewhat negative from a single digit standpoint. So, I think what you’re really seeing in Q3 was the anomaly of tenders internationally. David Risinger –

S: Yes, I was hoping you could give us a flavor for how much of the, pre-spend for the HCV launch is already showing up in the quarter here? And how much additional we should be expecting in the fourth quarter and the first quarter? And then second, if you could just go through what data we will be seeing at ASH?

Markets: Good morning and thank you for taking the questions. Bill, could you please build on your earlier comments about gross margin. What specifically are these margin-enhancing initiatives that you are referring to? And is this what we can expect going forward because we would only expect gross margin going up with hep C? And a follow-up, could you please give us an update about your efforts to simplify your current hep C regimen with fewer pills, please?

Chase: So, Alex, regarding the gross margin, there are a couple of things are in play on that line. First and foremost as you know we have obviously lost TriCor/Trilipix which had a higher than average gross margin than the corporate rate. So that’s some headwind we’ve actually been facing over the last couple of years. And you can see we’ve negotiated that nicely. Offsetting that there has been a couple of things. First of all, there is an impact of product mix in pricing. But equally important there have been efforts that we’ve put in place to reduce cost and that could be manufacturing cost, supply chain cost as well as of course to address some of our royalty burden on HUMIRA as well. And you’re seeing some of that play out this year. Next year obviously with HCV coming online, we would expect that to have a gross margin that would be higher than the corporate mix. And HUMIRA obviously has been performing very, very nicely as well and that ought to have a benefit on that line item as well.

Gonzalez: Alex, this is Rick. You kind of broke off when you said the last question, but I think what you asked was what are we doing to work on simplifying the regimen for HCV, is that what you asked? Alex Arfaei –

Chase: Vamil, one other thing, Bill Chase again. Just in the event that you’re inferring something to your question. Our increase in the guidance for the year is purely based on the business fundamentals as we see them. We’re not anticipating that being significantly moved by our buyback activity, just wanted to be clear on that. Vamil Divan –

Barclays: Thanks for taking my question. On HUMIRA could you help us understand the benefit from the royalty roll-off in Q3 from the cessation of payments to Merck KGA I think was in June and how that schedule of roll-off changes going forward through the plan expiries in both U.S. and Europe? Secondly, could you help us understand the size of the international shipment timing effect for HUMIRA in terms of how much growth it took off the ex-U.S. sales? Third, the IL-17 is about to launch in psoriasis, I think it is about 15% of HUMIRA sales. Could you help us understand the impact you feel those will have, or otherwise, on your business for next year? And then lastly on debt $9 billion of long-term debt. Can you help us understand your plans to restructure that and that is with respect to potential capital employment going forward.

Chase: So, Mark, on the dynamics in gross margin, I guess this is a simple way to think of that. We in the quarter had about 1-point headwind from related to TriCor/Trilipix LOE event. Obviously we made that up and then some. Our ability to make that up was driven probably somewhat equally by product mix and cost efficiency as well as including royalty – the royalty stack. I’m not going to get into specifics on how much that royalty stack impacted it. What I can tell you though is it’s not all royalty stack, we have a lot of activities going on right now, to streamline our supply chain and our overall manufacturing base. In terms of adds the same plays out over the LRP, we’ve never been specific on what the exact royalty stack is, some have estimated it’s between 5% and 10%. We’ve said those are good estimates. And one of the benefits of that royalty stack is, it will be largely removed at the point that we lose exclusivity on HUMIRA. So that’s an important upside to the product when we come to that point in time. In terms of the impact of international shipments on HUMIRA, obviously that puts some volatility quarter to quarter in the XUS HUMIRA number. This quarter it was about 1%, it wasn’t huge.

Chase: From a debt perspective, what I would tell you is we’re pretty happy with our balance sheet right now. Obviously we’re building cash, we’re looking at ways to deploy that cash whether it be through M&A or giving it back to the shareholders as you’ve seen in our recent announcements. I don’t think there is any compelling reason to necessarily reduce the amount of debt on our balance sheet. So, as those maturities come up, obviously we’re looking to term those things up. But as whole, we think we’ve got a very, very strong balance sheet.

Gonzalez: This is Rick, on the IL-17 obviously we study every new mechanism that comes into this market and developer strategy to deal with that mechanism going forward. We understand the IL-17 very well and the data that we’ve seen so far. What I’d tell you is if you look at many other mechanisms that have into all the different categories we compete in whether it’s RA or GI or psoriasis, this is a tough market to break into and gain significant share because there is a reluctance to ultimately go to a new mechanism very quickly. These are very potent drugs and have sometimes unknown side-effect profiles until there are in large populations. And that tends to make physicians more reluctant to switch in mass patients. And so, we view IL-17 as a good mechanism, there is no question it’s a good mechanism. And, but we view it early on it would be like other mechanisms that would come into this market, it will probably be more for failures, TNF failures, and eliminate some of that rotation that would have occurred. But we don’t assume that is going to have a dramatic impact on our psoriasis share going forward. Mark Purcell –

Gonzalez: Thanks, Larry. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us this morning. Since becoming an independent company, our strategy has centered around delivering strong results and returns for our shareholders while insuring, we have a strong sustainable growth business over the long term. As we look back over the past year and assess our performance, we’re pleased with the significant progress we've made, not only in delivering outstanding 2014 results, but also in establishing a solid platform for growth well into the future. As we announced this morning, we delivered exceptional results in 2014. With sales and earnings well above our original projections for the year, we delivered 7% global operational sales growth in 2014 and we increased our ongoing earnings per share by nearly 6%. When we launched AbbVie two years ago, one of our key priorities was to return to strong growth in 2015. I’m pleased that we were able to achieve that goal a year ahead of schedule. This performance demonstrates the strength and sustainability of our portfolio and underscores our continued focus and execution. Our performance in 2014 was driven by growth from key products including Humira , Synthroid, Synagis, CREON, and Duodopa. We also delivered year-over-year margin improvement while continuing to invest in R&D and SG&A to drive future growth. In addition to our strong financial results over the past year, we are seeing significant pipeline advancement and have achieved a number of important development and regulatory milestones. We secured US and European approval for interferon-free HCV treatment . We successfully completed several late stage clinical trials including daclizumab and Humira HS registrational programs. We initiated a number of promising phase 3 through programs including several phase 3 studies of our PARP inhibitor Veliparib in solid tumors such as breast and lung cancer and our BCL-2 inhibitor ABT 199 in hematological malignancies. We also made significant advancements with our next-generation HCV program, initiating a broad phase 2 B program which is on track to transition the phase 3 in 2015. We advanced a number of early-stage assets in the mid-stage development including our DB platform and ABT 414R our antibody drug conjugate in development for glioblastoma multiforma. We augmented our pipeline through strategic licensing and partnering activities. We acquired the rights to now in development for CLL and NHL. And we entered into a novel collaboration with Calico to accelerate the discovery, development and commercialization of innovative therapies for age-related diseases such as cancer and neurological diseases. And over the first couple of weeks in 2015 we have seen additional pipeline developments. With the recent US approval of DUOPA, our therapy for advanced Parkinson’s disease and positive topline efficacy results from the first year-to-go ex-pivotal trial in endometriosis. So we have established a strong foundation and have entered 2015 with good momentum which we intend to build upon. As I outlined earlier this month in 2015 we are forecasting full-year adjusted earnings per share of $4.25 to $4.45. It is important to remember that this range reflects EPS growth of 28 to 34% which is well above our peer group. And in the coming year we expect to see significant activity across our pipeline including the potential for several regulatory submissions data readouts and phase transitions that I will discuss in more detail in a moment. Humira was certainly an important driver of our strong performance in 2014 with nearly 19% operational growth for the year. Humira has averaged well over $1 billion of growth per year for the past eight years. For 2015 we expect Humira to once again be an important contributor to our robust performance with the mid-teens global operational growth expected. We also saw strong performance from several other products in 2014 including Creon, Synthroid, Synagis, and Duodopa. We expected each of these products would hold leadership positions in their respective categories, will continue to represent an important part of our business mix in 2015. Clearly another important driver of performance in 2015 will be our interferon-free HCV therapy Viteron which is now been approved in the US, EU and a number of other countries around the world. We are pleased with Viekira product label and updated AASLD treatment guidelines and we believe both reflect the strength of the product’s clinical profile across genotype-1 patient population. Position reception of Viekira has been positive and in line with our expectations. While we moved quickly upon approval, I would say that the US launch began in earnest in early January and we’re pleased with our progress today. The first phase of the launch securing payer positions and access for Viekira is well underway. As we indicated once a highly competitive alternative was available Managed Care began their contracting for this class. Obviously in this category the contracting process is occurring very rapidly unfolding over a period of weeks versus months. As we embarked on our discussions with payers we applied a standard Managed Care contracting approach with each account, basing our contracting terms upon four key tenants including the volume of Managed Care lives, the level of formulary control, the term of the contract and patient access within the system. A significant number of payer contracts have been completed in the U.S. with more than half the Managed Care lives in the US now under contract. Based on the outcome of this process today, we estimate that more than 40% of the covered lives will have access to access to Viekira pak including both the exclusive and parity positions we have secured. More than 20% of the lives will be in an exclusive position and we would expect the Viekira pak to capture some portion of the patients in plans that have elected to pursue exclusive contracts with other suppliers, given certain aspects of the Viekira pak profile and product label for certain patients. We need to see how the remainders of the contracts are finalized, but up to this point we're pleased with our formulary position and we believe we have the potential to capture meaningful share of the US HCV market. As we do with most new product launches, we monitor both prescriptions filled data as well as prescriptions written or claimed to assess our sales effectiveness and the efficiency of the payer administrative and prior authorization processes. To that end we have data from external sources, which show 11,000 Viekira prescriptions have been written through January 16th, with the majority occurring in the first two weeks of January. These prescriptions are working their way through the administrative and prior authorization process in order to be filled. While some of these claims may not be filled as is the case with all prescription claims, the majority will make their way through the administrative process and should be dispensed in the coming weeks. This level of Viekira prescription generation is well within our expectations for this stage of the U.S. launch. So based on the full body of data that we have in hand we feel good about the early days of our U.S. launch. Moving forward, our commercial efforts in the U.S. will focus on driving strong penetration in the AbbVie's exclusive and parity accounts while ensuring access to Viekira and non-AbbVie accounts, where our product offerings more appropriately based on the label or medical preference for certain patients. Our international launch is also progressing well and discussions with government payers in various countries are under way and they are advancing rapidly. We are currently selling Viekira in a number of countries around the world including Germany, U.K, Canada, Austria and Sweden and we are on the crux for beginning promotion in several other countries. The HCV market is significant and rapidly growing and based on patient prevalence, diagnosis, and treatment rates we expect it to remain large and an attractive opportunity for many years to come. We're excited about the opportunity Viekira offers us in this market and we're committed to this therapeutic category for the long term and we'll continue our efforts to evolve the treatment paradigm with next generation development programs well under way. Based on our current projections we estimate by the end of 2015 we will achieve a global annualized sales running rate for Viekira of more than $3 billion dollars. Given that we are early in our launch and there are numerous factors that play we will be providing more specific guidance regarding our 2015 sales expectation for the product as the year unfolds. Pipeline development is an important component about these long-term success and we continue to place a tremendous amount of organizational focus in this area. We have a rich and broad pipeline with more than 40 clinical development programs under way spanning large and growing especially categories. Our portfolio is comprised of assets that have the potential to deliver compelling clinical performance, patient benefits and economic value. Many of these products have the opportunity to generate multibillion dollar peak year sales. For a company of our size the sales projections from our late stage pipeline assets represent an impressive opportunity for meaningful revenue growth in the years to come. Over the past year, we demonstrated a strong track record of successful positive clinical data and regulatory outcomes from a number of clinical programs. And we look forward to numerous important pipeline milestones in the year ahead. This includes phase 3 trial initiations, data readouts for multiple programs across our pipeline, the submission of regulatory applications for several major late stage assets and potential product approvals. While I won't cover our entire pipeline in detail today, I thought it would be helpful to review some of the expected milestones in 2015. As I mentioned in 2014 successfully completed our registrational trials evaluating Humira as a treatment for HS. Our US and EU regulatory applications for this indication are currently under review, and we expect decisions from regulatory authorities later this year. Given our strong data and a high unmet need of patience, we believe this will be a significant indication for Humira sales potentially approaching a billion dollars. We’re also exploring Humira as a possible treatment for uveitis, a sight threatening inflammatory eye disease. We expect to complete the phase 3 program and some middle regulatory applications for uveitis later this year. We expect to see data from several of our promising oncology programs in 2015. This data includes data from ABT-199 study in patients with relapsed refractory CLL who had the 17p deletion mutation. We believe this study has the potential to be a registrational trial. Should we see the level of efficacy observed in the earlier studies, and regulatory agencies agreed ABT-199 addresses an unmet medical need, we plan to submit our regulatory applications for this indication later in 2015. We also plan to start a phase 3 study of ABT-199 in Gazyva in frontline fit CLL patients in 2015. This year, we expect to see results from the phase 3 study of elotuzumab in relapsed refractory multiple myeloma. Assuming positive results, we expect our partner to submit the regulatory applications for this indication later in 2015. We also expect to present mid stage data from our PARP inhibitor veliparib at medical meetings throughout this year. In addition to the four phase 3 trials already underway in 2015, we’re planning to begin phase 3 studies, evaluating veliparib as a treatment for ovarian cancer. We’re also excited about ABT-414, our anti- EGF monoclonal antibody drug conjugate, which is currently being evaluated in glioblastoma multiforme and has demonstrated encouraging responses in early-stage clinical trials. We will see additional data from the ongoing trial throughout the year and we’re on the cusp of starting a phase 2 study in this aggressive type of malignant primary brain tumor. With respect to our HCV programs, we expect continued progress in 2015. We’re on track to submit a regulatory application for HCV combination in Japan in the first quarter and anticipate approval in the second half. As a reminder, we expect to commercialize a 12-week, two-pill once-a-day combination for this market. We also expect to see SVR data from our next generation HCV program and transition to phase 3 development later this year. We have significant R&D efforts in place to advance the standard of care in each of our areas of immunology leadership and we’ll see mid stage results from several programs this year. We had two selective JAK1 Inhibitors in our portfolio – GLPG0634 and ABT-494. Both oral compounds are currently being evaluated as potential treatments for RA, and we look forward to learning more about each assets’ profile as the phase 2B data study is complete later this year. We’re working with our partner to complete our regulatory applications for daclizumab or Zinbryta in the first half of 2015. As a reminder we presented strong pivotal trial results last year which demonstrated MS patients treated with Zinbryta at a statistically significant 45% reduction in annualized relapse rates versus Avonex. Given the product profile and its once monthly subcutaneous administration, we believe this agent has the potential to be an important therapy in this large and growing market. Earlier this month we announced positive topline results from the first of two ongoing phase 3 clinical trials of the elagolix in endometriosis. Initial results from the study show that after six months of treatment both doses of elagolix evaluated met the studies co-primary endpoints of reducing scores of non-menstrual pelvic pain and menstrual pain associated with endometriosis relative to placebo control. We will see additional efficacy and safety data from this trial later this year. Results from the mid-stage trial on uterine fibroids are expected later this year as well. Clearly, 2015 promises to be another important year with numerous developments and regulatory milestones. We believe AbbVie has a unique investment identity. We offer promising pipeline prospects as described along with strong growth and compelling shareholder returns. Our business generates significant cash flow which we expect will grow in 2015 and beyond with new product introductions. We’re committed to returning cash to shareholders and our primary means to do so will continue to be our dividend. Last year we announced that AbbVie’s quarterly dividend will be increased to $0.49, an increase of nearly 17% beginning with the dividend payable next month. We intend to maintain our strong commitment to growing our dividend going forward. Additionally last year we also disclosed a $5 billion share buyback program to be executed over the next several years further reflecting our commitment to returning cash to shareholders. We will also utilize our strong cash flow to enhance our pipeline through licensing and partnering activities. As a mentioned in 2014 we entered into several collaborations to add to our pipeline. We view these activities as an important component of our overall R&D strategy and we expect to continue to augment our pipeline in 2015 and in the years to come. In closing, since AbbVie became an independent company we’ve been focused on executing our key strategic priorities and delivering market-leading returns for our shareholders. One of our primary stated objectives upon our inception was to return the strong growth in 2015. And we’re pleased that we’ve been able to do that a year ahead of schedule. We feel good about the high level of execution of our key strategic priorities, we’ve established a strong track record consistently delivering our financial commitments generating strong shareholder returns and driving leading performance of HUMIRA and other products in our portfolio. We’ve also built a promising late stage pipeline which will fuel our future growth. So we set a very sound foundation for our company. We were entering 2015 with strong momentum. We intend to build upon to drive a high level performance in our operations and strong growth. With that I will turn the call over to Bill for additional comments in the fourth quarter and our 2015 outlook, Bill?

Chase: Thank you, Rick. This morning I will start with an overview of our fourth quarter performance and then I will walk through our outlook for 2015. We had an outstanding fourth quarter, getting off the year, a better-than-expected performance. This performance allowed us to raise our people year EPS guidance range of 23 year and ultimately deliver results that exceeded our final guidance. Off note in 2014 we delivered EPS growth despite headwinds from currency in the fourth quarter as well as the loss of exclusivity in our lipid franchise. For the quarter total adjusted sales were nearly $5.4 billion up 8.9% on operational basis. And as I mentioned exchange dynamics in the fourth quarter were significant reducing sales growth in the quarter by 3.8%. Fourth quarter revenue growth by Humira which delivered global sales of $3.4 billion, up 14.4% operationally and up 10.6% on a reported basis. In the U.S. Humira sales increased 15.8% reflecting continued strong prescriptions trends double digit market growth across all three major categories rhum, gastro and derm. Internationally Humira sales grew 12.7% on an operational basis, excluding an 8.4% unfavorable impact from exchange. International Humira performance continues to be driven by double-digit market growth in most countries. Globally Humira sales for the full-year 2014 were more than $12.5 billion, up 18.9% operationally, versus the prior year. Sales of Synagis were $298 million on quarter, up 4.9% on an operational basis. For the full year, Synagis sales were $835 million an increase of 9.3% operationally versus the prior year. Growth in 2014 was driven by continued product uptake and strong commercial execution. As a reminder, this is a seasonal product with the majority of sales in the first and fourth quarters of the year. AndroGel sales were $230 million in the fourth quarter, down about 20% versus the prior year, reflecting the continuation of recent market trends. Full year sales were $934 million, down 9.7% year-over-year. Global Lupron sales were $207 million in the fourth up 0.6% on an operational basis. For the full year Global Lupron sales were $778 million, roughly flat from the prior year and in line with our expectations. Lupron continues to hold a leadership position and maintains significant share of the market. U.S. sales of Synthroid were $186 million in the quarter, with full-year sales of $709, up nearly 14%. Synthroid maintain strong brand loyalty and market leadership despite the entry of generics into the market many years ago. U.S. Creon sales were $151 million with full-year sales of $516 million up 25.3% versus 2013. Creon maintain its leadership position in the pancreatic enzyme market with roughly 70% share, and we continue to capture the vast majority of new prescription starts. International sales of Duodopa, our therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease were $56 million in the fourth quarter up 25.4% on an operational basis. For the full year, Duodopa sales were $220 million, a 24.7% increase versus 2013 on operational basis. And as you know, we launched our VIEKIRA, in the US in mid-December following FDA approval, sales of VIEKIRA were $48 million in the quarter, reflecting the shipment of stocking quantities into the market over the holiday to support our full commercial launch in January. I'll turn now to the P&L profile for the fourth quarter. The adjusted gross margin ratio was 81.2% excluding amortization and other specified items. This represents a significant increase over the prior year due to favourable mix impact across the portfolio, margin enhancing initiatives and the impact of exchange dynamics. Adjust SG&A was 29.1% of sales in the fourth quarter, reflecting investments and support of the recent VIEKIRA launch and in our other growth brands and adjusted R&D was 16.3% of sales in the quarter reflecting funding actions in support of our pipeline assets. Net interest expense was $63 million and the adjusted tax rate was 22.5% in the fourth quarter. Fourth quarter adjusted EPS was $0.89 excluding non-cash amortization expense and specified items. On a GAAP basis, we posted the loss per share of $0.51. Specified items were primarily comprised of various cost associated with the termination of the share transaction, our Calico collaboration and ongoing separation costs. I'd like to now discuss the outlook for 2015. We are confirming the full-year guidance we issued earlier this month including adjusted EPS of $4.25 to $4.45. This guidance excludes $0.34 per share of amortization expense and other specified items. On the topline, we expect high-teens revenue growth on an operational basis. Clearly we have seen significant currency movements in the recent weeks. If the recent rates would remain in effect for the remainder of the year our sales growth would be roughly 5% lower. Given our global business structure and programs we have in place to mitigate exchange impacts, the fall-through from currency to the bottomline is much more modest for us. We are comfortable with our 2015 EPS guidance range despite potential currency swings. Included in our topline guidance our assumptions for our key products, for HUMIRA, we expect global sales growth in the mid-teens. For Synagis we expect similar performance to 2014 growth rates. Regarding AndroGel we're forecasting continued market declines as well as a negative impact from the recent entry of generic competition for the 1% formulation. As a result we expect 2015 AndroGel sales of less than $500 million. We expect 2015 Lupron sales to be roughly in line with 2014 levels. For Synthroid we expect sales to be roughly flat from 2014 levels in line with market trends. For Creon we expect low double digit sales growth in 2015. We expect continued double-digit growth for Duodopa with a modest level of U.S. sales in 2015. Given the underserved patient population and the products profile and efficacy we are excited about Duopa's potential in the U.S. and expect it to be a meaningful contributor over time. That said, we anticipate a gradual ramp for the product sales in the U.S. as physicians grow familiar with the product. And we expect declines in several other products with continued lipid erosion and negative market trends in HIV and other material products. Turning back to the P&L, we are forecasting in improvement in the adjusted gross margin ratio of around 100 basis points for the year reflecting product mix and actions we've taken to further improve our margin profile. This level of improvement would be considerably higher if current exchange rates were to hold throughout the year given how exchange flows through our P&L profile in 2015. In 2015, we will continue to invest in our pipeline supporting our exciting opportunities in oncology, HCV, immunology and other areas. We are forecasting R&D expense of approximately 15.5% of sales, and we expect to continue investing in our growth brands with SG&A levels and approximately 25.5% of sales. As a result, we are forecasting a significant increase in our operating margin profile, which we expect to reach 40% of sales in 2015 up roughly 400 basis points reflecting the positive impact of leverage across the income statement, given our ability to moderate bottomline Fx impacts in 2015. Operating margin would be greater than 40% if current exchange rates were to hold throughout the year. We are forecasting net interest expense of about $275 million for the full year and we continue to expect an adjusted tax rate in the 22% range in 2015. Regarding our first quarter outlook, we expect adjusted earnings per share in the first quarter of $0.82 to $0.84. This excludes roughly $0.18 cents of specified items and non-cash amortizations resulting in a first quarter EPS in the range of $0.64 to &0.66 on a GAAP basis. So, as we look back we are very pleased with AbbVie’s performance in our first two years as an independent company. In 2014, we delivered sales in our names well above our original outlook and returned to growth a year ahead of expectations. And we expect to build on that momentum in 2015 with industry leading growth.

Peepo: Thanks Bill. We’ll now open the call for questions. Elon, we’ll take our first question please.

Severino: Yes, I will take 199 first. This is Mike Severino. 199 is a program that we continue to be very excited about. We are accruing data in the study that Rick referred to earlier that same patients with refractory or relapse CLL with 17P delta lesion. That's a data set that's accumulating. It's a single arm study, so obviously that data builds over time. We’d expect to have a data set that would allow us to draw some conclusions sometime early this year and we continue to make good progress. So again if the level of activity that we saw on earlier studies persists, we’d expect that to support a regulatory filing obviously, in discussion with regulatory agencies later on this year

Gonzalez: Okay Jeff, this is Rick. If you are asking the question of what will the US/ex-US mix be in 2015, obviously the US will be a much heavier mix based on how the gating will occur across those countries, and that mix will continue, I think going forward. As far as leakage or assumptions around what we will be able to achieve within accounts that are Gilead preferred, I think both of these products, if you look at the labels, if you look at the performance there are clearly a certain number of patients and patient types that will benefit from one therapy versus the other. So as we look at our own, we think that numbers are around 10%, for example, PI failures and decompensated cirrhotics are two examples of patient populations that will be more appropriate for the alternative. As we look at Gilead are certainly -- as you look at our label and our performance we think there is probably in the neighborhood of about 15% that would be available for therapy, those will be transplant patients, HIV co-infected patients, patient who have significant renal insufficiency, and we also think that there will be some experienced cirrhotic patients. They could benefit from 12 weeks of therapy with Viekira verses 24 weeks of therapy with

Divan: Just a couple if I could on the pipeline, with daclizumab, you mentioned some excitement around there. I guess the questions we’re getting a lot from investors, in terms of your future looking at MS having this one product, this partner obviously with a player that’s much bigger than you and MS, and has other products that they are going to be promoting as well, do you think MS is a space where you need to invest more, obtain more assets in order to have a broader impact? Or is this one where you think where you have daclizumab alone is sufficient? And a second just on Duopa. If you can just give a little more color there, where we think a lot more activity in terms of new approaches to treating Parkinson’s, how long or how much of an impact do you think that can really have if you think about, it is more of a formulation plan that you guys have here as these other agents maybe come to the market in the coming years?

Gonzalez: On HCV genotype 1 patients, you know obviously that is one of the parameters that we were carefully watching as it plays out. We are assuming that we'll see a significant increase in patient access going forward and therefore in the U.S. we'll see more patients treated. I think a reasonable range to think about would be something in the range of may be a 175,000 patients to as much as may be low 200's to 10 to 15 something in that range. Obviously, based on our planning assumptions we've bracketed between those numbers and that's one of the reasons why we don't want to come out with a 2015 number, because we need to see how that plays out. We build obviously a certain base level number into our guidance they were comfortable with. It may end up being more than that going forward. But that's at least our view of what it looks like. On I mean thus far we haven't see a lot of impact, one difference is in European markets self-injectables are treated differently than infusion products, so it doesn't necessarily impact HUMIRA directly in very many markets, I'd say it's tracking for the most part very consistent with what our modelling assumptions were for its level of success and you know we watched that carefully over a period of time and it's proceeding as we would have got. So, we are not assuming that will have any material impact on us in 2015.

Chase: Thank Rick. This morning I will review our first quarter performance and provide an update on our outlook for the remainder of 2015. As Rick said we’re very pleased with the strong quarter we delivered. Reported sales were up 10.5% despite a challenging foreign exchange environment. Operational growth on the top line was a very strong 17.8%. HUMIRA delivered global sales of more than $3.1 billion up 26% on an operational basis. We continue to see strong momentum from HUMIRA with robust growth across categories driving all-time high market share for the brand. U.S. HUMIRA sales increased 39.6% driven primarily by prescription volume increases in excess of 20% and favorable pricing impacts. Wholesale inventory remain constant at fourth quarter 2014 level of less than half a month. International HUMIRA sales grew 14.8% on an operational basis excluding a 14.6% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. As occurs periodically the first quarter was favorably impacted by the timing of shipments in select markets. For the full year 2015 we continue to expect global HUMIRA sales growth in the mid-teens on an operational basis. International sales of Synagis were $335 million in the quarter up 8% on an operational basis. Synagis which protects at risk infants from severe respiratory disease is a seasonal product with the majority of sales in the first quarters and fourth quarters. We continue to expect 2015 Synagis sales growth to be similar to 2014 performance. Global VIEKIRA sales in the first quarter were $231 million. In the U.S. many of our contracts have start dates in the April and May timeframe and we expect those to begin to ramp in the second quarter and third quarters and build for the remainder of the year. Our commercial efforts are focused on driving strong penetration in the AbbVie exclusive accounts. We've been successful in this regard with our largest contract which is been in place since the beginning of the year. Internationally we've been able to secure reimbursement in many markets faster than we had originally anticipated. As a result as Rick indicated we expect a higher mix of international sales this year than originally forecasted. Globally we continue to expect an annualized run rate of more than $3 billion in sales by the end of 2015. Global Lupron sales were $192 million in the quarter up 3.8% on an operational basis. For the full year 2015 we expect Lupron sales to be roughly in line with 2014 sales. U.S. sales of Synthroid were $186 million up 18.8% versus the prior year quarter. For the full year 2015 we expect Synthroid sales to be roughly flat from 2014 level in line with market trends. AndroGel sales were $153 million down significantly due to continued market declines in the entry of generic competition for the 1% formulation. As we said previously we expect AndroGel sales of less than $500 million for the full year 2015. U.S. Creon sales were $127 million in the quarter up 18.8%. We continue to capture the vast majority of new prescription starts in the pancreatic enzyme market, and we expect double-digit sales growth for Creon in 2015. Sales of Duodopa our therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease grew 19.5% on an operational basis in the quarter. We expect continued double-digit growth for Duodopa with a modest level of U.S. sales in 2015. Our U.S. launch will be getting underway in the second quarter and third quarters and as we said previously we anticipate a gradual ramp for product sales in the U.S. this year as physicians grow familiar with the product. The foreign exchange environment has clearly been challenging for our industry over the last few quarters and like our peers we saw a negative impact on our top-line in the quarter as a result. While we are not completely immune from currency swings, our global business structure and hedging actions we’ve taken will allow us to deliver our bottom-line commitments despite foreign exchange headwinds and protect shareholders from the negative impact. As a result of this mitigation, we will see a favorable effect on our margin profile. We showed continued improvement in gross margin as a percentage of sales in the first quarter. The adjusted gross margin ratio was 82.9%, up 450 basis points from the prior year quarter driven by the effects of exchange, product mix and operational efficiencies. Adjusted R&D was 16.1% of sales, reflecting funding actions in support of our mid and late stage pipeline assets. Adjusted SG&A was 26.7% of sales in the first quarter, down from the prior year contributing to continued improvement in operating margin leverage. The adjusted operating margin in the first quarter was 40.1% of sales, up 620 basis points to prior year quarter. The majority of this improvement was driven by product mix and efficiencies. We are on track to deliver an operating margin profile in excess of 40% in 2015. Adjusted net interest expense was $67 million and the adjusted tax rate was 22.3% in the quarter. First quarter adjusted earnings per share excluding non-cash amortization expense in specified items were $0.94, up 32.4% year-over-year and exceeding our previous guidance range. On a GAAP basis, earnings per share were $0.63. As Rick communicated, this morning we increased our adjusted earnings per share guidance range for 2015 by $0.05. Our adjusted EPS guidance range is now $4.10 to $4.30. This range reflects EPS growth of 23% to nearly 30%. The increase in guidance is reflective of the strong underlying performance of the business that we see playing out this year. And we have raised our outlook despite the increasingly negative impact from foreign exchange. We are now forecasting roughly 7% negative top-line impact from currency this year which we have covered in our guidance increase. Our 2015 adjusted guidance range includes the previous communicated $0.20 dilutive impact of the Pharmacyclics acquisition. It excludes $0.53 of amortization in specified costs including Pharmacyclics transaction costs booked in the first quarter. We plan to communicate specific profile guidance for the combined company as well as 2015 accounting impacts of the transaction on our second quarter call in July. Regarding the second quarter, we expect adjusted earnings per share of $1.04 to $1.06. This excludes roughly $0.09 of specified items and non-cash amortization and includes the modest amount of Pharmacyclics dilution based on a partial quarter impact. So in conclusion, we are very pleased with our out-performance in the first quarter and its impact on our full year projection. We’ve driven strong top and bottom-line growth and delivered operating margin expansion, while also advancing on our strategic priorities. This puts us in a strong position to deliver industry leading growth this year. And with that, I’ll turn it back over to

Peepo: Thanks, Bill. We’ll now open the call for questions. Evan, we’ll take our first question please.

Schoenebaum: Congratulations on fantastic P&L management this quarter. Rick I heard during your opening comments you talked a little bit about your long range plan kind of qualitatively about operating margin improvement as part of your long range plan. What I'd like to know perhaps is can you -- are you willing or can you yet quantify where you see operating margins going over the medium to long-term? And if you can’t do that today, well it should be understandable view that plans to maybe said on analyst meeting or some other venue at which you might communicate a long range plan with investors? And then also can you comment on whether or not your assumption for operating margin improvement over the medium to long-term is or is not dependent on revenue, in other words can you commit to your investor base that AbbVie can and will expand its operating margin even if the top-line were to come in below your internal expectations and obviously there the focus will be the HUMIRA bio similar erosion curve?

Gonzalez: This is Rick. I think probably the best way to answer your question is to maybe talk for a few moments about the philosophy by which we manage the business and how we think about investment, and how we think about revenue, and ultimately how we try to deal with changes in those dynamics. So let me share by saying, I am sure you understand that our business strategy is really designed to maximize both short and long-term profitability to business. Getting sure the strong returns and strong value over that long period of time, that philosophy really plays out in how we look at investment decisions, whether we’re increasing investment or decreasing investment. And what I’d say is this management team at AbbVie, they came out of Abbott has always been disciplined in our approach to resourcing opportunities as well as overall P&L management. We managed the business with the objective of driving robust growth in both revenue and EPS but at the same time improving operational efficiencies and I think you have seen some of that and I will talk more about that in a moment. In cost, in order to maximize shareholder returns but again short-term and long-term. And the examples I will give you is this. Just take a look at what we you have seen play out since we launched a new company. For example our gross margin profiles improved from 76.2% in the first quarter of 2014 to 82.9% this quarter. Additionally if you look at despite building the infrastructure that was necessary to be an independent public company operating margin profile was improved from 33.7% in first quarter of 2014 to 40.1% in the most current quarter. So we've delivered significant improvement in both of those metrics and we’re committed to continue to do that. And importantly we delivered six points of operating margin profile improvement in the last four quarters. The other thing I would say is we've seen a number of comparisons to various peers group as it relates to AbbVie. And I think it's important to recognize that no two companies are identical when it comes to product mix, geographic coverage, the size of the market that they operate in, the brands responsiveness to investment and many other factors. And I realized it is tempting to do these macro comparisons and I would even agree to some extent that is instructive at some level. But I'll also tell you there are limitations and flaws in doing it. I can tell you that we benchmark and compare ourselves to many companies and we believe that we compare favorably to most of our peers and we will give you a couple of examples here. When you compare AbbVie to the other large cap pharma peers, Bristol, Lilly, Merck, Pfizer, what you would see is the following. Our gross margin profile is on average approximately six points higher. Our R&D profile on average is five points lower. Our SG&A profile on average is three points lower. And our operating margin profile is about 13 points higher. Our geographic footprint is similar to many of those peers but our product mix is different. They have more primary care. And when you compare AbbVie to the pure biotech peers specifically Amgen, Biogen, Celgene, what you see is that our gross margin profile is on average six points lower and as due to differences in the product mix. Our R&D profile is approximately four points lower. Our SG&S profile is approximately five points higher and that’s driven by geographic distribution of our revenues especially the percentage of revenues that come from international sales as you probably know is about 45% for us and many biotech companies have 70% of their revenues coming from the U.S. And there are other anomalies that you have to be careful, such as some biotech companies have a definition adjusted SG&A that excludes the impact of equity-based compensation which we include and there are other accounting differences as well. So finally when you compare to this group and you look at our operating margin profile it's approximately seven points lower as it exists today. But the conclusion of assuming that that’s related to investments spending is not accurate. In fact I would tell you it's misleading. If you look at our total investments spending R&D and SG&A our investment spending on a profile basis is slightly below those peer companies. The entire difference is in the gross margin profile because of the product mix. And we've shown significant improvement there with more to come we’re committed to deliver more but that’s the fundamental difference between those peers groups. And again as we look at this data it is instructive and on balance I would tell you that based on the geographic footprint that we have it's larger than any biotech companies, the product mix and investment in R&D and SG&A the analysis shows us that we’re favorable to both of those peer groups. But in the end what really matters is what investment decisions do you make in the business and what’s the return that you ultimately get from. So you maximize the short-term and long-term value for the shareholder, and our philosophy is we invest in businesses and the brands to maximize that value, meaning we increase investment when we can drive a strong return and we reduce investment when we can't or a product gets to the end of its lifecycle. And I would tell you that I believe we do both very well. And we give you an example of each. If you think about the last two years, we've protected shareholder profitability for the last two years as our $2.5 billion Lupron franchise went generic. We did it by drastically reducing costs in that brand and other parts of the business. We’re doing the same thing right now on AndroGel, it's the obvious decision for us. I would just tell you it's the culture that we have here. Now let’s take the opposite example of that, HUMIRA. HUMIRA is a complex business model. HUMIRA sales and profit contributions come from a broad geographic footprint with about 40% of its sales coming from outside the United States. HUMIRA has an unparallel breath of indications and we use the unique selling model for HUMIRA. We utilize specialized and dedicated sales organizations for all major indications. We manage and invest in HUMIRA to maximize in short-term and its long-term value to the company and to our shareholders. And I think it’s pretty hard to argue with our success when we took the company public a little over two years ago, HUMIRA was $9 billion product. Today in 2015 HUMIRA is a $14 billion product, $5 billion of growth in 2.5 years despite the foreign exchange headwinds, the brand’s 55% larger. If you take Enbrel and Remicade together over that same period of time HUMIRA grew almost twice as much. So we think the performance speaks for itself. And I can tell you that based on the performance the strong potential for future continued growth, accelerating strip trends in the U.S. and strong international growth cutting HUMIRA, spending today is not a prudent long-term strategy for us. And finally, I’d make two last points, we’ve been very clear that we’re committed to driving strong continued improvement in operating margin profile, you saw that this quarter and we’re going to drive further improvements in 2015 and across the long range plan. Our goal is to drive strong growth and operate as efficiently as we possibly can to maximize profitability. We’re not going to make a prediction right now because we just made a significant acquisition and we need to start to integrate that acquisition and we will be in a position to be able to communicate things after that. Second, I get to the final part of your question because I think what you're really trying to ask me is if there was some unforeseen surprise around HUMIRA how we would react to that? So let me begin by saying the following; we do not in any way expect that type of event to happen. In fact I yell you quite the contrary. We anticipate HUMIRA will be a growth driver for us for many years and our investment and new indications like HS and Uveitis speak volumes for our confidence. However to answer your questions, it's a bare scenario played out and threaten to materially impact the profit contributions of HUMIRA we would apply our investment philosophy in an appropriate manner. We will take prompt and appropriate action to reduce our expense base accordingly with an eye to minimize the impact for the investors. To us as I said before, that’s the obvious strategy, it's part of our responsibility to shareholders as management. As a new company, we have met or exceeded expectations in every quarter of our existence including this quarter. We take our responsibility to deliver on our commitments and our performance to shareholders very seriously. If we saw any unforeseen event impact the business, we'd aggressively pursue actions to preserve profitability. As part of the culture and the commitment that we have and in fact I tell you we’re doing that right now. We’re protecting shareholders against significant foreign exchange impact and so that’s the philosophy we run the business and hopefully that answers the question that you asked.

Rubin: And I don’t want to be the dead horse obviously there has been a lot of focus on operating margins, but Rick or Bill maybe just comment on our math here. I mean clearly we see the improvements in gross margins and much about will come from royalties going away on HUMIRA as R&D seems to be in line with other large biotech peers that SG&A seems to be where things appear to be a bit out of kilter. If I do a bottoms-up analysis on HUMIRA it would seem that it will be difficult to spend more than 1 billion maybe a 1.5 billion if you really stretch it, so that leads about 4 billion to 4.5 billion for the rest of the portfolio and when I look at the rest of the portfolio, I mean Synagis, Lupron, Synthroid these are drugs that I don’t think require active promotion and I can’t imagine requires the multi-billion dollars and expenses. Obviously there is other stuff thrown in there, but when I sort of bring it all back to really start it out here, it seems that there is about $2 billion in excess spending. Can you comment on this? And is there anything structural that would prevent you from eliminating that without really touching taking HUMIRA spend? And just maybe another way to go about this is that is there anything structural that would impede you from achieving large cap biotech operating margins which in the next couple of years are forecasted to be in the low 50% range?

Severino: So with respect to ESOL, we continue to feel confident that VIEKIRA PAK will provide competitive efficacy in the timeframe that’s you are describing in the 2065 timeframe and beyond. Recall that cure rates of VIEKIRA are very high and that duration is been well tolerated and we don't see major shifts for example in duration of therapy in the timeframe that you are describing that would change that picture in any meaningful way. Of course over the longer-term we have our own next generation program which I talked about a little bit earlier in this call, which will continue to drive innovation in this space. And so we feel good about our presence in Hep C today. And we'll continue to do so over the years to follow. With respect real world cure rates with VIEKIRA PAK that doesn't match our experience. And so I really can't comment on that report. Our real world experience is actually a quite good with respect to adherence to the regimen and therefore realizing the cure rates that have been demonstrated in clinical trials. With respect to Imbruvica, we're each obtaining inhibition in autoimmune disorders, obviously that’s something that has been a focus of research for a number of companies including ourselves. It's something we'll continue to investigate. I think we will be positioned very well to pursue that aggressively given our extensive experience in immunology and post close given PCYC's experience in BTK inhibition. So it's certainly something that we will keep a close eye on something that we would pursue.

Severino: Thank you, Rick. It's an exciting time to be leading research and development at AbbVie. We've got a broad and robust pipeline that includes more than 40 active clinical development programs, including 10 programs in late-stage development or under regulatory review. Our core areas of focus include immunology where we're leveraging our deep expertise to develop next-generation biologics from small molecules that elevate the standard-of-care. Oncology, including assets to address both hematologic malignancies and solid tumors, neuroscience with a particular focus on developing disease modifying therapies for Alzheimer's and other neurotic, degenerative conditions, and virology with an emphasis on continuing to evolve the ACB treatment landscape. We are also placing focused investment in our late-stage programs in women's health with elagolix and renal disease with Atrasentan. Today I'll cover each of these areas and highlight some of our most promising programs. In immunology, we've established clear leadership positions across therapeutic categories including rheumatology, dermatology and gastroenterology and we're leveraging our expertise to build upon these strong positions. Our strategy is centered upon identifying treatments that offer differentiated profiles relative to currently available therapies with the goal of continuing to raise the standard-of-care. We have several promising assets in development including two oral selective JAK 1 inhibitors, several biologics and a bi-specific biologic currently in mid-stage trials. Most advanced are our two selective JAK 1 inhibitors on the cusp of completing mid-stage development in RA. As Rick mentioned, earlier this year our partner Galapagos announced positive topline interim data from two Phase 2b studies in RA. Over the next few months we will evaluate data from our internal program ABT-494 and make decisions about next steps. We also believe our DVD-Ig antibody platform holds tremendous promise in the treatment of immune mediated conditions. ABT-122 is our combination anti-TNF anti-IL-17 two validated mechanisms in Phase 2 trials for RA and psoriatic arthritis. Our early development work with the DVD platform has established as our DVDs have favorable drug-like properties similar to monoclonal antibodies and can be manufactured reliably. We will see data from our mid-stage trial in RA in early 2016. And we have other promising mechanisms in development including an IL-6 Nanobody as well as several early-stage programs. Finally, in immunology we continue to innovate with HUMIRA. We have new indications and formulations in late-stage development. We recently received a positive opinion from the EMA for hidradenitis suppurativa and we expect a U.S. regulatory decision in the second half of this year. We also received EMA approval for a new HUMIRA formulation specifically designed to reduce injection pain and reduce injection volume compared to the current formulation. This new formulation is currently under review by the FDA. And we're on track to submit our U.S. and European regulatory applications for Uveitis in the second half following the recent completion and positive results from our second pivotal trial. The acquisition of Pharmacyclics significantly accelerated AbbVie's clinical and commercial presence in oncology. With IMBRUVICA we've established a leadership position in the treatment of blood cancers and we're well-positioned to build upon that strength with other promising assets in development. Within the hematologic oncology space we have three novel mechanisms that are either on market or in registration enabling trials, DTK, PI 3-kinase and bcl-2 inhibition. We are well positioned to continue to evolve the treatment landscape with innovative combinations of these and other mechanisms. Our goal is to markedly improve efficacy by achieving deep, durable disease control and/or remission. As I mentioned, IMBRUVICA represents our first foray into this therapeutic category and we're pleased with the continued progress we are seeing with IMBRUVICA since the close of the acquisition. At the recent ASCO meeting, we and our co-development partner Janssen, presented data from the Phase 3 HELIOS trial which studied the combination of bendamustine and rituximab or BR with and without IMBRUVICA in relapsed/refractory CLL. The study demonstrated that IMBRUVICA improves outcomes when combined with BR illustrating that IMBRUVICA is not only effective as a single agent, but is also potent safe when used in combination. We also announced topline results from the Phase 3 RESONATE-2 trial comparing IMBRUVICA monotherapy to chlorambucil in patients aged 65 or older with previously untreated CLL. The results illustrate that treatment with IMBRUVICA improved progression free survival in multiple secondary endpoints including overall survival in the first-line setting. We plan to present and publish the full results and will submit the data to regulatory authorities in the second half, building upon our existing set of indications and expanding into the frontline CLL setting. We've also continued to make progress with our first-in-class BCL-2 inhibitor, venetoclax. At the recent EHA Meeting we presented updated study results showing patients with relapsed/refractory CLL taking venetoclax in combination with rituximab had an overall response rate of 84% with 41% of patients achieving a complete response. While early, these encouraging results speak to the valuable role venetoclax may play in novel combinations with the potential to restate standard-of-care in a variety of these cell malignancies. We recently received the FDA's breakthrough therapy designation for venetoclax in relapsed/refractory patients with a 17p deletion of genetic mutation. We plan to present the data that supported this designation at the upcoming ASH Meeting and we remain on track to submit our regulatory applications for the 17p deletion indication by the end of 2015. Our hematologic oncology pipeline also includes duvelisib a dual PI 3 kinase gamma/delta inhibitor being investigated for the treatment of a wide range of blood cancers. And we have partnered with Bristol-Myers Squibb on elotuzumab, a monoclonal antibody targeting CS1 a protein primarily expressed on the surface of myeloma cells in late-stage development for frontline and relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. Data from the Phase 3 study in relapsed/refractory patients recently published in the New England Journal of Medicine showed that adding elotuzumab to standard treatment significantly reduced the risk of disease progression. We expect our partner to submit regulatory applications for this indication this year. We are also leveraging this mechanism within the context of our antibody drug conjugate platform with ABBV E3A and anti-CS1 ADC currently in early-stage clinical development. Our pipeline also includes late-stage assets in development for the treatment of solid tumors. Veliparib is our PARP inhibitor being investigated as a treatment for several solid tumor types. In contrast other PARP inhibitors in development which are being evaluated as monotherapy specifically in cancers with inherited genetic deficiencies in DNA repair any later lines of therapy we've taken a different approach with Veliparib. We have numerous ongoing Phase 3 trials evaluating Veliparib in combination with common DNA damaging chemotherapies in a wide range of clinical settings. Veliparib has demonstrated promising signals of efficacy and is currently in late-stage development for breast cancer and non-small cell lung cancer. Additionally, we plan to evaluate Veliparib in combination with checkpoint inhibitors with clinical trials planned for 2016. We are leveraging our strong capabilities in protein engineering with ABT-414 our antibody drug conjugate for glioblastoma multiforme or GBM. GBM is the most common and most aggressive type of malignant primary brain tumor. The early data for ABT-414 are promising and we recently initiated additional single arm studies and a randomized controlled trial in second line GBM which could provide a pathway to registration if the data are consistent with earlier phase studies. Certainly the area of the immuno-oncology has recently garnered significant attention. We have an active discovery program with an objective to drive the next wave of immuno-oncology development beyond checkpoint inhibitors. We are particularly focused on the use of our bi-specific platform to support conditional activation of the immune system in the vicinity of tumor cells. And we are leveraging the emerging science of soluble T-cell receptor technology as well. We anticipate multiple immuno-oncology assets moving into the clinic in the 2016 timeframe. Our virology franchise will be a significant growth driver for us in 2015 and in the years to come. With the launch of VIEKIRA we have established a meaningful position in the HCV market and our current position will serve as a base from which we will launch further innovation. We are on track with our next-generation HCV program to bring to market a ribavirin-free, once-daily, pan-genotypic combination with high rates of efficacy and a competitive duration of therapy. Earlier this year, we disclosed preliminary results from a Phase 2b study of our next-generation protease inhibitor ABT-493 and our next-generation NS5A inhibitor ABT-530. The interim data showed that treatment with our next-generation combination in non-cirrhotic genotype 1a and 1b treatment-naïve and experienced patients receiving the ribavirin-free therapy for 12 weeks resulted in an SVR4 rate of 99%. Today I am pleased to report that the SVR 12 results are really impressive. In fact, the dose we intend to pursue in Phase 3 drove an SVR 12 rate of 100%. Evaluation in other genotypes continues to progress with encouraging results and we are also evaluating shorter duration of therapy with this combination. We expect to present data from the Phase 2 studies at the AASLD Meeting later this year and we remain on track to advancing into Phase 3 development this year with commercialization expected in 2017. In neuroscience we're focused on pursuing transformational therapies for the treatment of conditions like Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's, MS and other neurodegenerative conditions. Zinbryta, our investigational biologic for relapsing/remitting multiple sclerosis is currently under regulatory review in the U.S. and Europe with regulatory decisions expected in the first half of 2016. The filings are based upon strong pivotal trial results which demonstrated patients treated with Zinbryta had a statistically significant 45% reduction in annualized relapse rate versus Avonex an established standard-of-care. Given the product profile, novel mechanism of action and its once monthly subcutaneous administration, we believe Zinbryta has the potential to be an important therapeutic option. We're also in the early stages of our U.S. launch of Duodopa for advanced Parkinson's disease which was approved earlier this year. We are continuing to innovate with Duodopa working on drug delivery improvements and moving toward less invasive approaches and continued improvements in the Duodopa pump. We also have numerous early-stage neuroscience programs underway that have the potential to come to fruition in the later years or our long-term plan. For example, earlier this year we entered into a collaboration with C2N Diagnostics to develop and commercialize a portfolio of anti-tau antibodies for the treatment of serious brain disorders. Tau is a key protein associated with the pathologic progression of Alzheimer's diseases and like amyloid tau also has the ability to be imaged and tracked in the central nervous system. We recently received an orphan drug designation and initiated a Phase 1 program in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy, a rare and debilitating neurologic disease. We're on track to start clinical development with C2N in Alzheimer's disease in 2016. Finally, as I mentioned, we continue to make focused investment in our late-stage programs in renal disease and woman's health. Atrasentan is our internally discovered selective endothelin antagonist in late stage development for the prevention of progression of diabetic kidney disease. A large global Phase 3 program is currently underway evaluating the impact of Atrasentan on renal outcomes such as the onset of end-stage renal disease, transplantation or death due to renal failure. Elagolix is our compound in Phase 3 development for endometriosis and Phase 2b for uterine fibroids. Given the high prevalence of these conditions and the current lack of treatment options we view elagolix as a significant opportunity. Our goal with elagolix in endometriosis is to bring to market an oral therapy that provides a high level of efficacy with minimal menopausal side effects such as hot flash while preserving bone health. Earlier this year we announced positive top-line results from the first of two ongoing Phase 3 clinical trials. Initial results from the study showed that after six months of treatment both doses of elagolix met the study's co-primary endpoints with the safety profile consistent with prior studies. We have also now seen data from the six-month extension of the first elagolix endometriosis pivotal study and the results were consistent with previously reported efficacy and safety findings. We will see top line results from the second pivotal study in endometriosis in the first quarter of 2016, and we plan to disclose top-line data from our Phase 2b trial in uterine fibroids in the fall. So in summary, since the start of the year we've made significant progress and are on track to advance several programs in the coming months. We've built a promising late-stage pipeline comprised of potentially transformational medicines which will fuel our future growth. With that, I'll turn the call over to Bill for additional comments on the quarter and 2015. Bill?

Chase: Thank you, Mike. This morning I'll review our second quarter performance and provide an update on our outlook for 2015. As Rick said, we are very pleased with the strong quarter we delivered. Operational growth on the top-line was a very strong 19.4% excluding an 8.3% negative impact from foreign exchange. Reported sales were up more than 11%. HUMIRA delivered global sales of more than $3.5 billion, up 16.4% on an operational basis. We continue to see strong momentum for HUMIRA as the market leader around the world. On a reported basis currency had a negative 8.8% impact on global HUMIRA sales and reduced international HUMIRA sales by nearly 18%. U.S. HUMIRA sales increased nearly 29% driven by prescription volume and favorable pricing impacts. We've seen acceleration in market growth this year in the U.S. with HUMIRA driving double-digit growth in the gastro, rhum and derm segments. Wholesale inventory remained constant at less than half a notch. Internationally HUMIRA sales have grown nearly 9% on an operational basis in the first half of the year consistent with our planning capitalizations . As we noted last quarter, the first quarter international growth rate of nearly 15% was favorably impacted by the timing of shipments in select markets. Consequently international sales growth in the second quarter was negatively impacted by the shipment timing. Market growth internationally remained strong with most major markets experiencing double-digit growth and HUMIRA's international market share has remained stable despite new competitors and the launch of biosimilar infliximab. HUMIRA's momentum has not been adversely impacted by the biosimilar. For the full year 2015 we continue to expect global HUMIRA sales growth in the mid-teens on an operational basis. This reflects a forecast for the U.S. growth approaching 30% and 9% to 10% operational growth internationally. Global Viekira sales in the quarter were $385 million. In the U.S. we are wrapping share in our exclusive accounts and have now achieved our target level of penetration and our largest contract. As we've said previously, the contribution of the international launch has exceeded our planning expectations, which will lead to a higher mix of international sales this year. International sales of Viekira in the second half will also benefit from an expected approval in Japan where we will commercialize a two-drug, once daily, ribavirin-free combination. As Rick noted, total U.S. sales of IMBRUVICA in the quarter were strong at $234 million. Given the May 26 closing date for the Pharmacyclics transaction, we recorded a partial quarter of IMBRUVICA sales including $97 million of U.S. sales and $10 million of international profit-sharing. For 2015 we anticipate Pharmacyclics adding more than $750 million to our top-line for revenue occurring after the May 26 closing date. Global Lupron sales were $198 million in the quarter, up nearly 10% on an operational basis. For the full year 2015 we expect Lupron sales to be roughly in line with 2014. U.S. sales of Synthroid were $187 million, up nearly 12% versus the prior year quarter. For the full year 2015 we expect modest growth for Synthroid. AndroGel sales were $170 million, down significantly due to continued market declines and the entry of generic competition for the 1% formulation. We expect AndroGel sales somewhat above $500 million for the full year 2015. U.S. Creon sales were $159 million in the quarter, up significantly from the prior year. We continue to capture the vast majority of new prescription starts in the pancreatic enzyme market. We expect double-digit sales growth for Creon in 2015. Sales of Duodopa, our therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease grew more than 20% on an operational basis in the quarter. We expect continued double-digit growth for Duodopa with a modest level of U.S. sales in 2015. Our U.S. launch will be getting underway this quarter and as we've said previously, we anticipate a gradual ramp for product sales in the U.S. this year as physicians grow familiar with the product. Turning to the P&L profile for the second quarter, since becoming an independent company we placed a high priority on becoming more efficient in driving operating margin improvement. We are pleased with our progress in the quarter as we delivered an adjusted operating margin of 44.2% of sales. Excluding a modest negative impact from Pharmacyclics our operating margin improved 820 basis points versus the prior year quarter. More than 500 basis points of this improvement was driven by efficiencies and P&L leverage. We showed continued improvement in gross margin as a percentage of sales in the quarter. The adjusted gross margin ratio was 85.3%, up 570 basis points from the prior year quarter driven by exchange, operational efficiencies and product mix. Adjusted R&D was 15.9% of sales reflecting funding actions and support of our pipeline assets. Adjusted SG&A was 25.1% of sales in the quarter, down from the prior year contributing to overall continued improvement in operating margin leverage. Adjusted net interest expense was $137 million reflecting the impact of debt issued in conjunction with the Pharmacyclics acquisition. The adjusted tax rate was 21.9% in the quarter. Second quarter adjusted earnings per share excluding non-cash intangible amortization expense and specified items were $1.08, up 31.7% year-over-year and exceeding our previous guidance range. On a GAAP basis earnings per share were $0.83. Moving on to our outlook for the remainder of the year we are confirming our 2015 adjusted EPS guidance range of $4.10 to $4.30. This range reflects EPS growth of 23% to nearly 30%. Our 2015 adjusted guidance range includes the previously communicated $0.20 dilutive impact of the Pharmacyclics acquisition. It excludes $0.84 of intangible amortization of specified costs including Pharmacyclics transaction costs. Regarding the P&L profile for 2015 the following estimates have been updated to include the impact of significant foreign exchange and the Pharmacyclics acquisition. On the top-line we expect revenue growth on an operational basis of roughly 20%. We are forecasting approximately 7% negative top-line impact from currency this year resulting in a reported sales growth of around 13%. We are forecasting a significant increase in our operating margin profile which we expect to reach approximately 42% of sales in 2015. Excluding the negative impact from the Pharmacyclics acquisition, we expect to deliver roughly 650 basis points of improvement over the prior year, about 500 basis points of this improvement results from efficiency initiatives and leverage across the income statement. We are forecasting an adjusted gross margin ratio approaching 83%. This is an increase from our original guidance reflecting significant year-over-year improvement driven by the impact of exchange, product mix and actions we've taken to further improve our margin profile. We will continue to invest in our pipeline supporting our exiting opportunities in oncology, HCV immunology and other areas. We are forecasting R&D expense of approximately 16% of sales and we expect to continue investing in our growth brands with SG&A levels at approximately 25% of sales. We are now forecasting net interest expense of about $625 million for the full year including the incremental debt from the Pharmacyclics acquisition. And we continue to expect an adjusted tax rate in the 22% range in 2015. Regarding the third quarter we expected adjusted earnings per share of $1.05 to $1.07. This excludes roughly $0.14 as specified items in non-cash amortization and includes the impact of Pharmacyclics dilution. We expect third quarter revenue growth on an operational basis in the low 20 percentage range excluding approximately 7% negative impact from exchange. So in conclusion, we're very pleased with the level of quality in the quarter and our performance in the first half of 2015. We’ve driven strong top and bottom line growth and delivered operating margin expansion while also advancing our strategic priorities. This put us in a strong position to deliver top-tier industry growth this year and in the years to come. And with that, I’ll turn it back over to

Peepo: Thanks, Bill. We’ll now open the call up for questions. Operator, we’ll take our first question please.

Rubin: Thank you very much. Hope you guys can hear me okay. With respect to HUMIRA international sales you've pointed to shipment timing, tough comparisons and FX as reasons for the underperformance, but wouldn’t REMICADE biosimilars be the real culprit here? What evidence specifically can you share with us that suggests that this quarter performance was more of a one-timer verses a new trend? I mean may be you can share what you're seeing in terms of market share changes et cetera? And then a question for your Rick, on potential for U.S. biosimilars, as you know Amgen filed an IPR on the two long data pats, may be you can talk to those patents that are being challenged and put that into the context of your broader patent defense strategy.

Gonzalez: Thanks, all right Jami. Jami, this is Rick, good morning. I'll take the first question and let Laura Schumacher answer the second question for you. So it’s a good question and I’m going to answer your question, I’d say very directly and very clearly because I want to make sure that there is no misunderstanding or confusion around this issue. But the bottom line when we’ve done is I would tell you that we have seen no impact from Remicade biosimilar on HUMIRA in the international market, but I’ll give you some color to be able to support that. so I'm going to go back to the first quarter, when we announced first quarter results, if you look at Bill’s formal remarks, in his remarks we identified the fact that they benefited from shipment timing and that is exactly what we’re seeing here and I would tell you that the impact we’re seeing here is consistent with what we expected in that. Secondly, I’d tell you that when we put out the original guidance on HUMIRA, both at the beginning of the year and then when we raised guidance, within that guidance range we had assumed international performance growth of HUMIRA at 9% to 10%. If you look at the performance in the first quarter, we delivered 14.9% growth in the first quarter, second quarter was 3.6%, the average for the two quarters or the first half of the year is 8.8%. We are confirming now explicitly that the second half is forecasted internationally to be 9% to 10% which is exactly what it was in the original guidance. We are also confirming the original guidance. So obviously we feel that we were sitting here with our toes hanging over the edge of the cliff that would be an awfully foolish thing to do. So I can tell you we absolutely have no concerns around that. So let’s talk specifically around what we’re seeing with biosimilars and I’ll give you a little bit of facts maybe to support it. So the biosimilar Remicade has been approved now in 46 countries. It is actually launched in about 36 of those countries. They participated in five national tenders and they participated in about 11 regional hospital tenders. If you look at markets that they have been in for more than a year to be able to measure what their market share is, their total market share is 2.8%. So they haven’t any meaningful impact. We measured every one of those markets that they are in, we've been doing it from the very beginning and in those markets HUMIRA continues to grow as we would have expected it. We don’t see any impact from nor did we expect any impact from Remicade biosimilars within those markets. We obviously continue to watch that. If we look at the pricing within those markets, the medium discount versus the innovator is about 25% odd. For the ones that were tendered it is a little over 50% odd which again is in the range of what we would have expected. The reaction that we’re seeing in the market is consistent with what we expected. And so I would just tell you that it is playing out as we anticipated. Now we need to continue to monitor, but I can tell you that we don’t have any concerns in that area as we would have expected. So the reality is, this is nothing more than movement of shipments between a handful of countries. I'll give you a couple of examples maybe to make you feel a little better. So if you take France which I know there has been a lot of public concern about France, if you look at our growth rate in the first quarter and our growth rate in the second quarter they’re almost identical. If you look at Canada our growth rate accelerated between first and second quarter. If you look at the Netherlands our growth rate accelerated between first and second quarter. Now there are countries where clearly we saw tenders move around. There weren’t any countries that we're impacted by biosimilars, they were due to other events. So reality is, this is nothing more than shipment timing. Did I answer your question?

Schumacher: With respect to your question about Amgen’s IPR, as we’ve said before, we have a broad portfolio of IP covering manufacturing, process, formulation and methods that we use. Amgen’s IPR does not impact our patent strategy. We don’t know why Amgen selected the two formulation patents that it did to challenge, potentially challenge an IPR, but it does give some perspective on the breadth of our IP including over 40 additional patents that are not the subject of the

Arfaei: Regarding HUMIRA, you mentioned you are seeing accelerated market growth in the U.S. very impressive U.S. performance by the way. Are you seeing increased penetration of biologics in these markets or is it overall volume growth or both? And can you provide more color on some of the efficiencies we are seeing, some of the operating efficiencies we’re seeing? Where are you cutting and why?

Gonzalez: So Alex on HUMIRA, if you look at the U.S., it’s really been a remarkable story. If you look at market growth last year, it was in the 6% range. That has now moved to about a 13%. We’ve held that pretty steady across the quarter. So what that’s a sign of is that the SG&A that we put behind the brand continues to work and it continues to give a positive return. And the way that that growth is delivered is in fact by penetration as well as improved patient compliance and a number of other things. But there is definitely a penetration element that is the big growth driver in this market. And as you know all of the autoimmuno segments are relatively under penetrated versus what you would expect given the power of a biologic. So that is a big part of the story. In terms of efficiencies, look, we’ve been focused on efficiencies from the very beginning now they shake on the number of different places. In manufacturing, they are the traditional efficiencies you would expect, whether it be purchasing, better utilization of plants or in some cases even take offline non-productive capacity, we've done all of those sorts of things. Across the P&L though, leverage itself presents a different type of efficiency, right. We’re obviously no longer in a situation where we need to grow expense in at the same rate of the top line. In fact, if you look at our expense growth particularly on SG&A it is far, far, far, below what the top-line is growing and that’s pretty much the new model for this business now that we’ve made the investments we needed to make back in '13 and '14 and we’re on track to start delivering growth through the introduction of new products in '15 and beyond. So there are really two different types of efficiencies in the numbers.

Schoenebaum: Okay. Hey, guys, thanks a lot for the transparency, always the most detailed prepared remarks of any company, any big company, so thanks for that. I just want to go back to the central point that others have asked about. Because the stock is off right now and the consistent feedback I’m getting is that people are just very concerned about the rest of the world's HUMIRA numbers. So my question is really simple; one, what was the sequential volume growth for rest of the world HUMIRA? Two, what was the average change in price quarter-on-quarter in the 2Q, please? And then my second question if I may is, you guys I think as mentioned that you might contemplate in the Analyst Meeting or you might provide some long-term financial targets or vision and go over the pipeline, and then you would contemplate this once the PCYC deal is closed. So I’d just like to know what your current thinking is on that?

Severino: Okay. So this is Mike. I’ll take the second component of your question. With respect to the IL-17s, I think clearly the IL-17s in plaque psoriasis demonstrate very strong efficacy. There are areas where their profile is not quite as compelling in psoriatic arthritis for example. The initial uptake of the 17s has been relatively slow. We would expect the dermatologist would take some time to become comfortable with the new mechanism before they would adopt it. So we feel comfortable about the trajectory of

Gonzalez: Okay. And on the new formulation, I mean we really can’t talk specifically about what the strategy is because it’s somewhat condition on the regulatory approval and we don’t have regulatory approvals yet all around the world. But there probably will be situations where it will be a replacement product, meaning it will replace not over a very short period of time, but over a relatively short period of time as inventory runs out of the old product, the new product will replace the old product and we will only maintain the new product in the marketplace. I would say that will probably be the predominant model that is out there, but it might not be the exclusive model that is out there depending upon the regulatory approvals.

Karnauskas: All right, so two quick questions, one you didn’t mentioned anything about celiac disease, I am wondering if you could comment on did the program fail or are you still interested in that program? Second question on HUMIRA II, the new HUMIRA, do you think will be able to track that in any way will it be given a different name? Just wondering like how the Street will be able to monitor that as it has an uptick? And then the last question big picture for your RA franchise given that looks like you don’t have to go through the patent dance and Amgen’s filing an IPR which could speed up sort of the clarity around when they are actually going to launch. How do you view the time lines for some of your emerging RA drugs and whether it is important to get them on the market sooner or whether or not you'll still be okay if Amgen’s biosimilar hits ahead of their launch?

Gonzalez: I mean essentially it has IP associated with it, I'd say this is really a strategy to differentiate the product. Obviously we have IP around this particular formulation. I think that IP will protect this particular formulation. As we've described I think a couple of times before, we don’t view this as an absolute block. When you think about our biosimilar strategy, it’s a number of things that have all been put together, a very large portfolio of IP, some of that IP is very broad and very challenging I think for someone to work around. New formulations, it helps differentiate the product. Our commercial strategy, when and if biosimilar is launched and then our pipeline of new assets to be able to move into this market and I'd say although we tend not to probably be able to get there in any meaningful way, I think one of the exciting things that we see internally is if you look at the data that we’ve seen around the JAK 1 hypothesis that we have its is playing out and its playing out in a very positive way. And I think it’s a profile of a drug that we believe could have a meaningful impact in the marketplace and I think that would be an important product for us to advance and get into the marketplace and then also ABT-122, I think as we talk about an IL-17 combined with a TNF as we see that data, I think that product could have a very meaningful place in the market as well. And so I think we’re gaining a lot of encouragement about de-risking that mid-stage pipeline to ensure that we have some products that will follow on with

Gonzalez: Thank you, Larry. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us. As Larry mentioned, we'll be covering two topics on the call this morning. I'll briefly discuss our third-quarter 2015 performance highlights and Bill will walk you through the quarter in a bit more detail. I'll then discuss the Company's long-term strategic and financial objectives that we outlined this morning, including our expectations for growth and other financial metrics over our long-range plan. As always, we'll provide ample time to answer your questions. We delivered another quarter of strong performance with third quarter results well ahead of our expectations. Adjusted earnings per share were $1.13, representing growth of nearly 27% versus the third quarter of 2014. This is the third consecutive quarter of delivering roughly 30% EPS growth. Our results in the quarter included operational sales growth of more than 26%. Before I provided an overview of our highlights in the quarter, I'll briefly provide our perspective on the recent update to our U.S. VIEKIRA label. As you're likely aware, last week, we updated the prescribing information to reflect a change in the use of VIEKIRA in certain patients with advanced cirrhosis. Specifically, Child-Pugh C patients. VIEKIRA went from not recommended to contraindicated. VIEKIRA was and remains contraindicated in Child-Pugh C patients. In addition, the updated label recommends a clinical and laboratory assessment for patients with cirrhosis to ensure that those with decompensated disease are identified. Turning now to the other quarterly events. In the quarter, we advanced several important strategic priorities, continued to enhance operational efficiency and achieved a number of clinical and regulatory objectives. Our third-quarter performance was driven by growth from several product in our portfolio, including strong growth from HUMIRA and IMBRUVICA, continued uptake of VIEKIRA and continued growth from Creon and Duodopa. We also continued to improve efficiency across our operations delivering roughly 640 basis points in operating margin expansion this quarter versus the prior year, achieving an operating margin of 44.9%. I'll discuss our commitment to further drive this metric in the context of our long-term financial objectives in just a few moments. We continue to be very pleased with the advancement and de-risking of our mid- and late-stage pipeline. During the quarter, we reported positive data, advanced programs into the regulatory approval cycle and received approval for several assets. Last month, we reported positive top line results from two Phase 2b studies of our selective JAK1 inhibitor. We believe ABT-494 has a very compelling profile, with a potential for best in class efficacy even in the most difficult to treat TNF inadequate responder patients, and with once daily dosing. We'll present the full results from the two mid-stage trials in an upcoming medical meeting and are on track to initiate the Phase 3 studies by year-end. We also reported positive top line findings from a Phase 2b trial of elagolix in patients with uterine fibroids. Preliminary results from the six-month study demonstrated that all of the treatment arms achieved the study's primary endpoint. Based on these findings, we plan to advance elagolix into Phase 3 development for fibroids, with initiation expected in the first quarter of 2016. We recently submitted the U.S. regulatory application for IMBRUVICA as a therapy in treatment naive patients with CLL. In June, we announced the top line results from the Phase 3 RESONATE-2 trial comparing IMBRUVICA monotherapy to chlorambucil in patients aged 65 or older. The results illustrate that treatment with IMBRUVICA significantly improved progression-free survival and multiple secondary endpoints, including overall survival in first-line therapy. As we've said, a significant portion of our valuation for Pharmacyclics was attributed to advancing into first line treatment, and while we assumed a very high probability of success, the RESONATE-2 data provides strong evidence of IMBRUVICA's efficacy in a frontline setting, further de-risking this component of our model. The trial results will be published in a peer reviewed medical journal and presented at an upcoming medical meeting, and we anticipate a regulatory decision to use in treatment naive first-line patients in the first half of 2016. Given the robust results, we have a high degree of confidence that IMRUVICA will be very successful as front line therapy. We also recently completed our U.S. regulatory submission for venetoclax or ABT-199 in relapsed/refractory CLL patients with 17p deletion. We also recently received regulatory approval for our two pill, once daily HCV therapy in Japan. We expect to receive reimbursement and launch in Japan in the next month or so. Late last month, we submitted our regulatory application for a once daily formulation of VIEKIRA PAK in the U.S. Finally, during the quarter, we received regulatory approval for HUMIRA as a treatment for HS and we submitted our U.S. and European regulatory applications for HUMIRA as a treatment for uveitis. In summary, we delivered another quarter of strong results exceeding our guidance range for the quarter, and we raised our full-year 2015 outlook to the upper end of our previous guidance range, reflecting growth of roughly 28%. Our results year-to-date demonstrate the significant progress we've made towards our objective of delivering industry-leading growth. I'll discuss our strong outlook for 2016, as well as our longer term financial commitments after Bill covers our third quarter results in more detail. With that, I'll turn the call over to Bill. Bill?

Chase: Thank you, Rick. This morning, I'll review our third quarter performance and provide an update on our outlook for 2015. As Rick mentioned, in addition to delivering strong top line growth in the third quarter, we again exceeded our earnings-per-share guidance range with growth of nearly 27% versus the third quarter of 2014. Operational growth on the top line was very strong at 26.2%, excluding a 7.8% negative impact from foreign exchange. Reported sales were up 18.4%. HUMIRA delivered global sales of more than $3.6 billion, up 19.6% on an operational basis. We continue to see strong momentum for HUMIRA as the market leader around the world. On a reported basis, currency had a negative 7.5% impact on global HUMIRA sales, and reduced international HUMIRA sales by 16%. U.S. HUMIRA sales increased 30.4%. We've seen acceleration in market growth this year in the U.S. with HUMIRA driving strong growth across the gastro, rhum and derm segments. Wholesale inventory levels remained constant at roughly half a month. Internationally, HUMIRA sales increased 7.1% on an operational basis in the third quarter, roughly double the rate of growth we reported in the second quarter. HUMIRA's momentum has not been adversely impacted by the Remicade biosimilar. We continue to see only modest overall share gains for the biosimilar in the major markets, in line with our planning assumptions. HUMIRA's list of indications continues to grow with recent EMA and FDA, approvals for HS. HUMIRA is also currently under regulatory review for uveitis with approval expected by the end of 2016. Global peak year sales for HS are expected to be approximately $1 billion per year, while uveitis sales are expected to reach several hundred million dollars per year. For the full year 2015, we now expect global HUMIRA sales growth in the high teens on an operational basis, an increase from previous guidance of mid-teens operational growth. This reflects a forecast for you U.S. growth approaching 30% and high single-digit international operational growth. This was the first full quarter of IMBRUVICA sales since the closing of the Pharmacyclics acquisition and global sales were strong at $304 million. U.S. sales were $267 million and our international profit-sharing was $37 million. For 2015, we continue to expect Pharmacyclics to add more than $750 million to our top line through revenue occurring after the May 26 closing date. Global VIEKIRA sales in the third quarter were $469 million. The international launch has continued to exceed our planning expectations and has resulted in a higher mix of international sales this year. As Rick mentioned, we recently received regulatory approval in Japan for our two drug, once daily, ribavirin free combination for the treatment of genotype 1b. We anticipate launching in Japan next month following the traditional 60 day reimbursement review cycle. We also saw a strong performance across a number of our other products including Duodopa, Creon and Lupron. Turning to the P&L profile, we are pleased with our progress in the quarter as we showed continued improvement in gross margin as a percentage of sales. The adjusted gross margin ratio was 83.3%, driven by exchange, operational efficiencies as well as product mix. Adjusted R&D was 15.4% of sales, reflecting funding actions in support of our pipeline asset. Adjusted SG&A was 23% of sales in the third quarter, down from the prior year, contributing to continued improvement in our operating margin profile. We delivered an adjusted operating margin of 44.9% of sales, up 640 basis points versus the prior year quarter. After adjusting for a modest negative impact from Pharmacyclics, more than 500 basis points of this improvement was driven by efficiencies and P&L leverage. Net interest expense was $197 million, reflecting the impact of debt issued in connection with the Pharmacyclics acquisition. The adjusted tax rate was 21.9% in the quarter. Third quarter adjusted earnings per share excluding non-cash intangible amortization expense and specified items were $1.13, up nearly 27% year-over-year and exceeding our previous guidance range. On a GAAP basis, earnings per share was $0.74. Moving on to our outlook for the remainder of the year, we are raising our 2015 adjusted EPS guidance to a range of $4.26 to $4.28. This reflects EPS growth of approximately 28% at the midpoint. This guidance excludes $1.10 per share of intangible amortization expense, deal costs, integration and other specified items. We expect fourth quarter revenue growth on an operational basis in the low 20% range, excluding approximately 5% negative impact from exchange in the quarter. For the full year 2015, we are forecasting an operating margin of 42% to 42.5% of sales, and as Rick noted, today, we provided a 2016 adjusted earnings per share guidance range of $4.90 to $5.10. We'll provide more detail regarding this guidance as we normally do, on the fourth quarter call in January. So, in conclusion, we're pleased with the drivers of our strong performance, further demonstrating the quality of our results in the quarter, and thus far in 2015. We've driven strong top and bottom line growth and delivered operating margin expansion, while also advancing our strategic priorities. This puts us in a strong position to deliver top-tier industry growth this year and in the coming years. With that, I'll turn it back to

Gonzalez: Thanks Bill. As a reminder, we have posted slides to our website which you can use to follow along. My remarks regarding our long-term strategy generally coincide with the presentation. Today, we'll share with you some of the key assumptions from our long-range plan which we review annually with our Board of Directors. Over the past couple of quarters. There has been an increasing level of interest from investors for more detail on our views regarding a variety of topics, including AbbVie's long-term growth prospects over the next several years, our ability to expand margins, our expectations around biosimilars and our pipeline prospects. Additionally, as we evaluated our long-range plans, expected performance versus Wall Street's consensus, there is a clear gap in revenue and EPS growth. Based on these dynamics, we decided it was appropriate to provide investors with a clear view of our expected performance and the significant drivers of that performance. Turning to Slide 3, our mission when we launched as an independent company was to create an innovation driven patient focused specialty biopharmaceutical company, capable of achieving sustainable top-tier performance through outstanding execution and a consistent stream of innovative medicines. Our actions, since our inception have clearly supported that mission. We've built an innovation driven culture, attracting top talent, focused on developing new products to address some of the most serious health conditions. We delivered outstanding performance from our promoted portfolio. This includes, HUMIRA, where we have accelerated growth and developed a comprehensive strategy for the future. Our heightened level of R&D investment has generated above industry success rate with positive clinical data and regulatory outcome from a number of development programs. Our pipeline now has a number of late stage de-risked assets with multibillion-dollar potential. We acquired Pharmacyclics, providing a major new growth platform in a key strategic area, and significantly strengthening our long-term growth prospects. We have placed a significant focus on driving operating efficiencies with impressive results to date. We've built shareholder value and confidence with investors based on consistent strong performance and we've delivered strong return of capital to investors, including a rapidly growing dividend. Our actions have placed AbbVie in a position to achieve top-tier performance, and you clearly see that in our results. As I mentioned earlier, our current guidance projects EPS growth of more than 28% in 2015. Our fundamental strategy is strong and we've built an excellent foundation. As you can see on Slide 4, since 2013 we have consistently delivered strong financial results, including acceleration across key financial parameters. We've generated significant top and bottom-line growth and robust operating cash flows. Turning to Slide 5, despite our enhanced level of R&D spend as you can see on this slide, which has grown substantially since we were a division within Abbott. We've driven significant improvement in both gross and operating margin profiles. We remain focused on further margin expansion, and I'll outline our commitments to enhancing these metrics in just a moment. Moving to Slide 6, we've also established a strong track record of delivering on our financial commitments, consistently meeting or exceeding our earnings estimates. We're proud of this outperformance, and we remain disciplined in achieving our stated objectives. As noted on Slide 7, AbbVie's total shareholder return since separation is nearly 76%, a result that places AbbVie in the top third of our peer group. These strong returns have created more than $35 billion of value for our shareholders, and a market cap of nearly $90 billion. Turning to Slide 8, while we've demonstrated a very strong track record of historical performance, we're also committed to delivering top-tier results in the years to come. As we evaluate our prospects over our long-range plan. We believe we're well-positioned for success. We're strategically positioned in attractive, high-growth market segments and based on continued strong performance from our existing portfolio of on market products, including our flagship brands HUMIRA and IMBRUVICA, as well as growth from our pipeline products, we expect to deliver top-tier revenue growth through 2020. Today, as you can see on Slide 8, we're providing guidance for total company sales of approximately $37 billion in 2020. This reflects 10% top line sales growth on average over the five-year period. This guidance includes estimated global HUMIRA sales of more than $18 billion in 2020, which we believe appropriately captures the expected biosimilar dynamics globally. I'll share more detail on our comprehensive strategy to continue our leadership position in immunology later in these remarks. Additionally, we expect AbbVie's IMBRUVICA revenues to reach approximately $5 billion in 2020, driven by continued growth within the hematological oncology market, and our pipeline has the potential to achieve nominal peak revenues of nearly $30 billion by 2024. This estimate excludes new HUMIRA and IMBRUVICA indications and sales from our next-generation HCV combination, which are considered on market products, for the purpose of this calculation. We have the potential to launch more than 20 new products or indications through 2020, including seven approvals that will contribute in 2016, and beyond. I'll discuss some of these promising programs today but we will be covering our full pipeline in more detail at an R&D pipeline review to be held in Chicago during the 2016 ASCO meeting. As I mentioned, our significant focus on operating efficiencies has resulted in strong improvement of our gross and operating margin profiles. The Company is committed to driving continued expansion of operating margin and is targeting an adjusted operating margin of greater than 50% by 2020, with an average of 100 basis points to 200 basis points of improvement per year. AbbVie also remains committed to returning cash to shareholders, through a strong and growing dividend. To that end, today, we announced that our Board declared an increase in our quarterly cash dividend from $0.51 per share to $0.57 per share, an increase of approximately 12% beginning with a dividend payable in February 2016. Our commitment to top line growth and continued operating margin expansion will drive double-digit earnings-per-share growth on average through 2020, and today we're issuing strong full year 2016 adjusted EPS guidance of $4.90 to $5.10. This outlook represents 17% growth versus 2015, at the midpoint and positions AbbVie to be among the industry leaders for EPS growth again next year. Turning now to Slide 9. To accomplish these goals, we have narrowed our focus, and positioned AbbVie for a leadership in extremely attractive market segments. Our core areas of therapeutic focus include immunology, where we have a strong leadership position, across rheumatology, GI and dermatology. We're leveraging our scientific leadership and expertise to develop next-generation biologics and small molecules that elevate standard of care. We have multiple pipeline assets in mid- to late-stage development with best in class potential. The oncology market represents an $85 billion segment projected to grow at a compounded annual growth rate of 12% through 2020. Within this market, we have a developing leadership position in the hematological segment with IMBRUVICA and we have several other mechanisms in development, including our BCL-2 PI3 kinase and our anti-CS1 antibody drug conjugate. We also have an emerging pipeline of assets for the treatment of solid tumors, including our PARP inhibitor, Veliparib and ABT-414 for glioblastoma multiforme. Virology also represents a large and durable segment for us. We've established a foothold in the marketplace with our current offering VIEKIRA. Our emphasis is on continuing to evolve HCV treatment, and our next-generation combination is poised to deliver meaningful improvements relative to currently available therapies. Earlier this year, we disclosed preliminary results from a Phase 2b study of our next-generation protease inhibitor ABT-493 and our next-generation NS5A inhibitor ABT-530. The interim data showed non-cirrhotic genotype 1a and 1b treatment-naive and experienced patients receiving the ribavirin free therapy for 12 weeks, achieved SVR 12 rates of 99%. The dose we intend to pursue in Phase 3 drove SVR 12 rates of 100%. Preliminary results from the eight-week treatment cohort were disclosed last week. These data show that 34 of 34 or 100% of genotype 1 patients achieved SVR4. We'll share additional results from our next-generation combination at the AASLD meeting next month. Neurology represents a large market with significant unmet need. We're focused on developing disease modifying therapies for Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative conditions. Our existing portfolio includes Duopa for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease and Zinbryta which is currently under regulatory review in the U.S. and Europe for multiple sclerosis. We're also placing focused investment in our late stage programs in women's health with elagolix, and renal disease with atrasentan, as well as early-stage programs in cystic fibrosis. Endometriosis and uterine fibroids are both highly prevalent conditions and elagolix has demonstrated promising results in the treatment of both of these conditions. Now turning to Slide 10, based on our long-range plan for our marketed product portfolio, and our risk-adjusted pipeline, we're targeting total revenue of approximately $37 billion in 2020, reflecting a top line compounded annual growth rate of 10%. As you can see, our estimates are roughly $5 billion above the current Wall Street consensus. Our 2020 target revenue is based on a number of performance drivers. We expect HUMIRA to continue to be a strong growth driver, adding close to $4 billion in sales by 2020. AbbVie's IMBRUVICA revenue will reach approximately $5 billion by 2020. Our HCV franchise will remain a significant contributor to our long-range plan. Our pipeline will add more than $4 billion in risk-adjusted sales and Duopa will reach blockbuster status globally. Turning now to Slide 11, we expect several key products within our current marketed product portfolio to add significant growth in the years to come, including HUMIRA, IMBRUVICA, HCV and Duopa collectively will add $10 billion in incremental sales by 2020. Growth of HUMIRA will be driven by continued biologic penetration across disease categories and new indications. I'll talk more about our planning assumptions around HUMIRA growth and the impact of biosimilars in just a moment. IMBRUVICA's growth in this timeframe will be predominantly driven by increasing penetration within our currently approved set of indications and movement in the frontline use for those indications. The RESONATE-2 data further reinforces our view that IMBRUVICA will be a highly successful agent in frontline therapy for CLL. Growth will also come from label expansion into new hematological cancer, such as diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma and multiple myeloma. Growth in our HCV franchise will be driven by continued uptake of VIEKIRA PAK across geographies, including Japan, the second largest HCV market globally, and we expect to commercialize our next-generation HCV offering in 2017, which will be a pan-genotypic once daily, ritonavir and ribavirin-free combination. Given the significant global prevalence of this disease, we expect the HCV market to be very durable, well into 2020. As I said, we forecast Duopa will achieve sales greater than $1 billion globally by 2020, and finally other products in our on market portfolio including Creon, Synagis, Lupron, Synthroid represent steady and durable sales contributors over our long-range plan. Turning to Slide 12, our growth outlook for HUMIRA is based on a thorough analysis of the global market dynamics and the strategy that we've put in place. We've taken what we believe is a realistic view of the market and the competitive environment over the next five years, and expect global HUMIRA sales in 2020 to exceeded $18 billion. Turning to Slide 13, we have a comprehensive strategy in place, which we believe will allow us to protect and grow our leadership position in immunology. Our multifaceted strategy is comprised of HUMIRA intellectual property, enhancements to HUMIRA, innovation, including a robust immunology pipeline and strong commercial execution. Turning now to Slide 14, we're planning conservatively with respect to the timing for European biosimilars and for planning purposes expect direct HUMIRA biosimilar competition upon expiration of our compound patent in Europe in October 2018. However, we are pursuing additional IP in Europe and expect the situation to evolve over time. Again, though, the guidance we've outlined today excludes any potential benefit from our IP in Europe. Turning to our U.S. patent estate, as you can see on Slide 14, we have built a robust portfolio of intellectual property. Beyond our composition of matter patent, we have more than 70 additional later expiring U.S. patents related to HUMIRA. The vast majority of these patents which reflect significant innovation and investment were granted by the U.S. patent and trademark office within the past two years. These patents expire between 2022 and 2034. The size of AbbVie's patent estate is a direct consequence of the ground-breaking work of AbbVie scientists in a new field of biologics. Small molecules drugs have been around for many decades, but therapeutic antibodies are much newer, larger and more complex. Because they must be made in living organisms, biologics are more difficult to manufacture. In addition, because they are foreign proteins that are introduced into the human body, biologics present unique challenges in terms of formulation and treatment. Not only is the field new, but HUMIRA itself was a new type of biologic. It was the first fully human therapeutic antibody ever approved by the FDA. The development of HUMIRA was unchartered territory. Those efforts resulted in the United States Patent Office granting AbbVie dozens of patents covering HUMIRA. The coverage of our later expiring patents includes methods of use for the drug in all HUMIRA indications, methods to formulate the drug, and methods to make the drug, as well as other aspects of the HUMIRA product such as the delivery device. Any company seeking to market a biosimilar version of HUMIRA will have to contend with this extensive patent estate, which AbbVie intends to enforce vigorously. With respect to formulating the drug, we have patents on formulating the HUMIRA antibody, that also expire no earlier than 2022. Biologic drugs must be administered intravenously or as injections and can be difficult to formulate properly. Given our extensive experience with HUMIRA, these patents cover not only our commercial formulation, but also other related formulations that biosimilar companies might employ. 14 patents have been issued covering different formulations of HUMIRA. With respect to making the drug, we have important patents on the methods of manufacturing HUMIRA that expire no earlier than 2027. The living cells that produce biologic drugs such as HUMIRA can be sensitive to small changes in the manufacturing process. Minor differences in manufacturing process can affect the nature of the biologic drug and even its clinical effect. 24 patents have been issued covering methods of manufacturing HUMIRA and HUMIRA compositions resulting from those methods. Today, I'll focus on those patents which cover using the drug, otherwise known as method of treatment patents. While AbbVie's formulation and manufacturing patents for HUMIRA also have broad coverage, without further information on the biosimilar we cannot know with certainty, the extent to which these patents will be infringed. Now turning to Slide 15. Since the biosimilar statute requires the biosimilar to obtain approval for one or more indications previously approved for the innovator drug, and have the same route of administration, dosage form and strength, we know biosimilars will infringe these method of use patents. We have method of treatment patents covering all the indications for which HUMIRA has been approved. These patents do not expire until 2022 or later. These patents reflect the development work of more than 100 clinical trials, spanning 18 years. As discovered through this work and reflected in the HUMIRA label, different diseases require different treatment regimens, which AbbVie discovered following significant investment in clinical development. These patent in uses have been key to the success of HUMIRA. They have opened up new and better treatment options for an increased patient population and improved the quality of life for those patients. Our method of treatment patents cover the approved dosing regimens for each indication and are not mere refinements of previous dosing regimens, which is often the case with method of treatment patents in the small molecule arena. Furthermore, biologics like HUMIRA are more complex and unpredictable by their nature than small molecules. As such, Biologics present unique challenges in terms of treatment. One challenge was the fact that HUMIRA targets TNF alpha, a protein that plays an important role in the human immune system. It is critical to find the right balance in terms of blocking the harmful effects caused by excessive TNF alpha without interfering with the normal functioning of the immune system. This made the development of safe and effective methods of administering HUMIRA all the more difficult, and because HUMIRA was the first human therapeutic antibody ever approved by the FDA of any type, the work by AbbVie scientists was unprecedented. In total, putting aside the composition of matter patents on HUMIRA, there are 22 issued patents directed to the treatment of TNF mediated diseases that expire in 2022 or later. Additional applications are pending and still being examined in the patent office. Again, a biosimilar company will have to contend with our method of treatment patents for every indication for which it seeks approval, as well as our formulation and manufacturing patents which are not limited to any particular indication. Turning to Slide 16. As you evaluate the timeframe for a potential U.S. biosimilar market entry, it is important that you consider the legal process and the likely timeline for resolution. While it's always difficult to estimate the precise duration of the litigation process, the average time to trial for a patent action is nearly 3.5 years. Appeals to the Federal Circuit Court usually take one year. So, based on similar cases, the total litigation timing may be as long as four or five years. At risk launches, when a company launches a generic product before patent expiration and before a final determination that a patent is invalid or not infringed, are relatively rare due to the potential exposure. Because of HUMIRA's success such damages could be extremely large. Of course, we can't know how other companies will evaluate that risk. However, in the event a biosimilar attempts to launch at risk, AbbVie will seek injunctive relief. For the reasons we've already discussed, biosimilars will necessarily infringe our patents. Given the unique properties of HUMIRA and the lack of any prior experience with fully human monoclonal antibodies these patents are strong. Courts considering request for preliminary injunctions have considered these factors important and have granted injunctions where they are present. Turning now to Slide 17, another important aspect of our immunology strategy is our pipeline. This includes both enhancements to HUMIRA as well as our promising pipeline of new products in development, which are designed to restate standard of care in each of our areas of leadership. We have two new indications for HUMIRA that will contribute significantly to the product's continued growth. We also recently received approval in Europe for a new formulation of HUMIRA, which provides meaningful patient benefit, including lower levels of pain, versus the current formulation, and we are submitting regulatory applications for an improved HUMIRA pen device which we expect to introduce in 2016. Finally, we are continuing to work on developing proprietary delivery technologies and devices to further enhance the product. Behind HUMIRA, we have a pipeline of mid and late stage immunology assets in clinical development. AbbVie is the clear leader in immunology. It is a category we understand extremely well and our performance is reflective of our deep expertise. As we embarked upon developing a set of next-generation assets, we did so with our knowledge of the type of breakthrough profile a new drug would require in order to achieve a significant market share position. Each of the assets that we have in our immunology pipeline has the potential to deliver that type of market changing product profile that we're targeting. We're very pleased with the mid-stage results from our selective JAK1 inhibitor ABT-494, which shows the potential to be best in class in RA with high efficacy once daily dosing and a favorable benefit risk profile. We're particularly excited about the results of ABT-494 demonstrated in the most challenging patient population, the anti-TNF inadequate responders. Given that anti-TNF therapies have been available now for nearly 2 decades. This patient population has grown over time. In fact, the population currently represents roughly 35% of the U.S. patient population. We are rapidly moving ABT-494, the Phase 3 studies, and it is our goal to launch this asset into the U.S. market well in advance of any biosimilar entry. Our large and experienced commercial organization which currently represents HUMIRA will promote ABT-494 and our other immunology pipeline assets upon their U.S. commercialization. We have tremendous confidence in the organization's ability to successfully represent these assets. We also believe our DVD antibody platform holds tremendous promise in the treatment of certain immunity conditions. ABT-122 is our combination anti-TNF anti-IL-17, two proven mechanisms which is currently in Phase 2 trials for RA, and psoriatic arthritis. Our earlier development work with the platform has established that our DVDs have favorable drug-like properties, similar to monoclonal antibodies and can be manufactured reliably. We'll see data from the mid-stage trial in RA in early 2016 and results from our study in psoriatic arthritis later in the year. If the results are positive, we will quickly advance ABT-122 into Phase 3 development. We're also working to advance several other early and mid-stage immunology programs including our partnered anti-IL-6 Nanobody and we continue to explore the LMA landscape for assets that fit our target product profile. Moving on to Slide 18, HUMIRA's unique product profile and AbbVie's strong commercial execution has HUMIRA the number one prescribed biologic with the highest commercial prescription market share, including the highest percentage of new patient starts. HUMIRA holds the preferred or co-preferred position on managed care of more than 90% of U.S. covered lives. Patients, physicians and payers recognize the meaningful clinical and economic value of HUMIRA as a treatment option for the broadest set of immune mediated diseases. We've demonstrated that treatment with HUMIRA is more cost-effective and saves payers on downstream costs associated with diseases like RA, Crohn's and psoriasis. Moving on now to Slide 19. As I said, we've taken what we believe is a realistic view of our prospects of our long-range plan. Given the competitive landscape, potential for biosimilars and other factors. Our plan is built around a key set of assumptions that vary by geography. Let me start with international. Internationally, we are planning for mid-single digit market growth over the long range plan. Our plan assumes some limited erosion upon Enbrel biosimilar launches starting in 2016. As outlined, embedded within our guidance is an expectation for HUMIRA ex-U.S. biosimilar launch in the fourth quarter of 2018, with the expected pricing and market share performance for such products. We anticipate moderate erosion from direct HUMIRA biosimilar competition beginning in 2019. In the U.S. our long-range plan assumes that U.S. markets deliver mid to high size single digit market growth driven by roughly a 4 point increase in biologic penetration. Despite competitive entries we expect HUMIRA will only experience minor erosion of market share over our LRP, and as we've outlined, we believe the litigation process and our intellectual property estate will protect HUMIRA from biosimilar entry until 2022. Our LRP also assumes successful penetration of new HUMIRA indications and then our immunology pipeline will begin to contribute new revenues with commercialization of ABT-494 in 2019 and other assets to follow. It is our expectation that AbbVie's immunology pipeline will contribute nearly $8 billion in nominal sales in 2024, with ABT-494 a significantly de-risked asset, representing roughly half that expected contribution. Now, moving to Slide 20 and moving on to our oncology portfolio, as we've said, we acquired Pharmacyclics and IMBRUVICA represents a pipeline in a molecule with significant growth potential through its existing and expanding list of indications and lines of therapy. This transformative therapy has already secured approval for the treatment of four indications and there are more than 25 company-sponsored clinical studies to evaluate IMBRUVICA as a treatment for a wide range of additional cancers. In its first year on the market, Pharmacyclics and our partner have driven market-leading performance and therapeutic uptake of IMBRUVICA, clearly demonstrating the strength of the medicine's attributes and its clinical profile. We expect IMBRUVICA to achieve blockbuster status in 2015, with AbbVie's projected IMBRUVICA revenues growing to approximately $5 billion in 2020. IMBRUVICA, has vast potential for label expansion and future indications. It is currently being evaluated in mid and late stage trials in follicular lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and multiple myeloma. We are also encouraged about IMBRUVICA's potential in graft-versus-host disease based on data from an earlier stage study, and if IBRUVICA demonstrates clinical value in solid tumors there would certainly be significant upside to our expectations. We recently initiated a phase 3 trial evaluating IMBRUVICA and pancreatic cancer, and we're currently studying IMBRUVICA in other solid tumour types in combination with immuno-oncology, including early-stage studies in breast and lung cancer. Turning now to Slide 21, our acquisition of Pharmacyclics significantly accelerated AbbVie's clinical and commercial presence in oncology. With IMBRUVICA, we've established a leadership position in the haematological oncology market, which is poised to nearly double to $50 billion by 2020. We're well-positioned to build upon our leadership in this category with other promising assets in development. Beyond IMBRUVICA, we have several other products in development that have the potential to offer differentiated efficacy in a wide range of blood cancers. Our BCL-2 inhibitor, venetoclax is in late stage development for CLL, and mid-stage trials for several other cancer types, including NHL, AML and multiple myeloma. Duvelisib is a mid and late stage trials for CLL and NHL, and we have an innovative antibody drug conjugate in early development for multiple myeloma. Given our broad portfolio, we believe, we have the potential to continue to evolve the treatment landscape with combinations of these and other mechanisms. Our goal is to markedly improve efficacy by achieving deep, durable disease control or remissions while reducing or eliminating the use of toxic chemotherapy. We recently completed the design for our first clinical trial evaluating Venetoclax in combination with IMBRUVICA and Gazyva in first-line CLL and we expect to initiate the study in the first half of 2016. We also have an active discovery program with the objective to drive the next wave of immuno-oncology development beyond checkpoint inhibitors. We're particularly focused on the use of our bispecific biologic platform to support conditional activation of the immune system in the vicinity of tumour cells, and we're leveraging the emerging science of soluble T-cell receptor technology as well. We anticipate multiple immuno-oncology assets moving into human trials in 2016. Moving to Slide 22, the assets in our pipeline stay in attractive especially categories. All told, we have more than 50 products or indications currently being evaluated in human trials with more than 20 currently in registrational trials or under active regulatory review. Turning now to Slide 23, we built a robust pipeline comprised of potentially transformational medicines in large markets with profound unmet medical need. Our pipeline has the potential to deliver nearly $30 billion in nominal new revenue by 2024. Several products currently in late stage development have the potential to be multibillion-dollar assets that will offer growth and top line diversification. We also have numerous programs in early stage development underway that have the potential to come to fruition in the later years of our long-range plan. Now turning to Slide 24. Over the past year, we've seen data from numerous key assets that have further increased our level of confidence in all likelihood of clinical, regulatory and commercial success. Based on our progress, we have significantly de-risked a large number of major development programs that now have a very high probability of success. For example, our first registrational study for Venetoclax in relapsed refractory CLL patients with 17P deletion met its primary endpoint and is currently under regulatory review. As mentioned earlier, the frontline data for IMBRUVICA in CLL were robust and our regulatory applications are under active review. Regulatory submissions for Zinbryta and MS are well underway, supported by a large registration program that showed the novel biological superior versus an active comparator. We've seen positive data from several Elagolix studies in endometriosis and uterine fibroids. Our partnered asset, Elotuzumab is currently under regulatory review for relapsed refractory multiple myeloma, following receipt of breakthrough designation. We disclosed top line data from our selective JAK1 inhibitor ABT-2494, illustrating its potential for best in class efficacy in RA even in the most difficult to treat TNF inadequate responder patients. We have successfully completed the HUMIRA uveitis pivotal trial with filings currently under regulatory review, and we announced top line data from our next-generation HCV program illustrating its potential to offer a highly competitive profile. Turning now to Slide 25. We made significant progress with our pipeline and we anticipate continued advancements between now and the end of 2016. As you can see noted on this slide, we have numerous product approvals, data readouts, registration submissions and phase transitions anticipated over the next year or so. Now turning to Slide 26. The continued growth from our existing portfolio combined with the risk-adjusted sales contribution from our pipeline will drive top-tier revenue performance over our long-range plan. This level of revenue growth puts AbbVie near the very top of our expanded peer group based on current consensus estimates. Turning now to Slide 27, in addition to the strong top line growth we also expect to deliver significant margin expansion in the years to come. Our focus on driving operating efficiencies to date has resulted in strong improvement in both gross and operating margin profiles. On this slide, you can see the significant level of margin improvement that we've delivered since our first quarter as an independent company. Turning to Slide 28. Our continued focus on operating margin will drive further expansion with a projected operating margin of greater than 50% by 2020 and an average of 100 basis points to 200 basis points of improvement per year. Expansion will be driven primarily by ongoing efficiency programs, optimized manufacturing, commercial infrastructure, administrative costs and general corporate expenses, productivity initiatives and supply chain, and the reduction of HUMIRA royalty expense in 2017 and 2018. Additionally, we'll see continued sales leverage from our rapidly growing top line. Our guidance for 2020 operating margin incorporates approximately 200 basis points of diluted impact partnered assets, including IMBRUVICA, Venetoclax, Zinbryta and Synagis. As you can see on Slide 29, this powerful combination of revenue growth and margin expansion, positions AbbVie as one of the top EPS growth companies among our expanded peer group. Turning now to Slide 30. AbbVie generates significant cash flow, which we expect will grow in 2016, and beyond. So far in 2015, we have repurchased $6.25 billion of shares, including the ASR associated with Pharmacyclics acquisition, and we have $3.45 billion remaining on our current buyback program. As I mentioned earlier, today, we announced that our Board has authorized a 12% increase in our quarterly dividend. Since 2013, we've increased our dividend by more than 42%, and we intend to maintain a strong commitment to growing dividend going forward. We'll also use our strong cash flow to continue to augment our pipeline through strategic licensing, acquisitions and partnering activity. Over the past several years, we've added numerous promising assets to our portfolio and we continue to focus on identifying compelling programs that fit our strategic criteria. Turning to Slide 31, since we became an independent company in 2013, we've consistently delivered on our commitments, and we are positioned to deliver more than 28% bottom-line growth in 2015. A level of performance that puts us at the top of our peer group, and as we look at 2016, we're once again poised to deliver top tier financial performance with EPS growth of 17%, the midpoint of our strong guidance range. Based on our 2016 midpoint, AbbVie will have grown its EPS by roughly 60% in just three years. Across our long-range plan, we're projecting our EPS growth to average nearly 15%, again putting AbbVie in the very top of our peer group. In summary, we're well-positioned to deliver strong top and bottom-line performance through 2020 and beyond. We've established growth platforms in some of the largest and most diffractive market segments, including immunology, oncology, virology and neurology and we build a compelling pipeline in these areas which will contribute significantly to our performance in the years to come. Our commitment to top line growth and expanding our operating margin to greater than 50% will generate double-digit EPS growth on average through 2020. We've built a strong foundation and we are committed to delivering top-tier financial performance. With that, I'll turn the call back over to Larry. Larry?

Rubin: Thank you, and wow that was a lot of detail, Rick. It's going to take time I think to digest it all, but I know that we certainly really appreciate it. First question is this, was wondering if management's comp is tied to the long term targets. Secondly, it seems that the biggest delta between the Street and your guidance on HUMIRA is timing of a biosimilar launch. Wondering if you could comment on that and also if you could comment on Amgen CEO's comment on his earnings call, where he said that HUMIRA has IP and Amgen has to respect that. So, is it the case that the Street's coming around to your view on the strength of your IP and the timeline of 351(k) pathway regulations or has something really changed in terms of your confidence with IP? Thirdly, and I'm sorry for this but, with your operating margin guidance growing to over 50% by the end of the decade, it looks like that's really coming or driven by strong revenue growth not by operating cost cuts. Can you confirm that and obviously in a sort of a bear case scenario, how much flexibility do you have to reduce your SG&A? We all know you're spending a lot on HUMIRA and having a really good return on investment, but if that changes, how much flexibility do you have?

Officer: Thank you, Rick. In 2015, we significantly advanced and de-risked our pipeline and achieved a number of important regulatory milestones. And we expect 2016 to be a very productive year as well with a potential for several regulatory submissions and approvals, key data readouts, and phase transitions. We have a broad pipeline that includes more than 50 active clinical development programs including more than 20 new products or indications in late stage development or under regulatory review. Today, I'll highlight recent updates and discuss some of the milestones we anticipate in the year to come. I'll start with hematologic oncology, an area where we have invested heavily and are uniquely positioned. As Rick mentioned, we have built a strategic portfolio of assets including multiple mechanisms of action that have significant potential alone and in combination. The development program for our flagship oncology product, IMBRUVICA, continues to progress nicely. Our next opportunity for label expansion is in the first line CLL setting. Data from the RESONATE-2 trial in treatment-naïve CLL patients recently published in the New England Journal of Medicine, showed treatment with IMBRUVICA resulted in an 84% reduction in the risk of disease progression versus chlorambucil with 87% of patients remaining on single agent IMBRUVICA treatment at 18 months. Additionally, treatment with IMBRUVICA showed an 84% reduction in overall mortality. We believe RESONATE-2 represents a practice-changing study that will set a new treatment standard for many treatment-naïve patients. We submitted a supplemental new drug application to the FDA which is currently under priority review and we anticipate approval in the first half of 2016. IMBRUVICA is also being evaluated in mid to late stage trials in follicular lymphoma, marginal zone lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, multiple myeloma, graft versus host disease and pancreatic cancer. At the recent ASH meeting, 65 IMBRUVICA-related abstracts were presented, including data from several studies and potential new indications. And there is potential for data flow and possible regulatory submissions this year for several indications including treatment-naïve mantle-cell lymphoma, relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma, and treatment naïve diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, with timing dependent on event-driven analyses of ongoing studies. In the area of immuno-oncology, ongoing trials evaluating IMBRUVICA in combination with checkpoint inhibitors are progressing well, with a potential to see proof-of-concept data in solid tumors over the course of the year. Another important strategic asset in our oncology portfolio is venetoclax, our novel BCL-2 inhibitor, which has demonstrated strong efficacy, achieving deep levels of response and durable disease control, both as monotherapy and in combination with Rituxan in patients with relapsed/refractory CLL. Venetoclax is currently under priority review for relapsed/refractory CLL, including patients whose tumors harbored the 17p deletion mutation. And we expect FDA action in the first half of 2016. At ASH, we presented data in the relapsed/refractory CLL patients in combination with Rituxan, showing an overall response rate of 86% and a complete response rate of 47%. Additionally, minimal residual disease negativity in the bone marrow was observed in 55% of all patients treated with the combination. We're very encouraged by the depth of the responses driven by combination therapy in this patient population. Based on these data, earlier this month the FDA granted breakthrough therapy designation for venetoclax when used in combination with Rituxan. We also believe BCL-2 will be effective in other hematologic malignancies. We recently presented encouraging venetoclax data in treatment naïve AML patients over 65 years of age who are ineligible for intensive induction chemotherapy. The early data showed combination treatment with venetoclax and hypomethylating agents resulted in complete response rate of approximately 71%, which is roughly double the response rate that would be expected with the current standard of care. And based on these promising results, earlier this week the FDA granted the third venetoclax breakthrough therapy designation. We are moving expeditiously into registrational trials for this indication. In addition to IMBRUVICA and venetoclax, we are developing a dual PI-3-kinase inhibitor, Duvelisib, currently in late-stage development. In collaboration with our partner, Infinity, we'll see data on Duvelisib in relapsed/refractory NHL and CLL in the second half of the year with potential regulatory submissions to follow. We're well positioned to continue to evolve the treatment landscape in CLL and other blood cancers by exploring novel combinations including the programs in our pipeline and other mechanisms with the goal to achieve deep, durable disease control and/or remissions while reducing or eliminating the use of toxic chemotherapy. To that end, we have numerous combination trials underway or starting n 2016. This includes our Phase III study of a chemotherapy-free combination of venetoclax and Gazyva in first-line unfit CLL patients. This study is underway and enrolling well. A large Phase III study is being initiated in collaboration with the German CLL working group to evaluate treatment with venetoclax in combination with a variety of therapies including Gazyva and IMBRUVICA in previously untreated, fit CLL patients. This study, which we expect to initiate midyear, will assess the ability of venetoclax-based combinations to drive achievement of minimal residual disease, which has been associated with improved survival in CLL patients. To augment ongoing investigator-sponsored and collaborative group studies evaluating venetoclax and ibrutinib combinations, we are designing company-sponsored studies to evaluate the combination in first line CLL patients. In addition, AbbVie and Genentech are finalizing plans to pursue registrational studies evaluating combinations of venetoclax with proteasome inhibitors in multiple myeloma and, as I mentioned previously, in combination with hypomethylating agents in AML. Finally, we are preparing to initiate a dose finding study evaluating venetoclax and Duvelisib in patients with a variety of hematologic malignancies. In addition to our work in hematologic oncology, we have also been investing in a number of programs for the treatment of solid tumors, including our PARP inhibitor, veliparib, with five Phase III studies underway in lung, breast and ovarian cancer, and ABT-414, which is in development for glioblastoma multiforme, or GBM. GBM is the most common and most aggressive type of malignant primary brain tumor. Previously reported interim results from a Phase I clinical trial of ABT-414 showed that roughly 25% of patients with EGFR amplification or the B3 variant treated with ABT-414 in addition to standard of care achieved an objective response. These results illustrate a level of efficacy not typically seen in this difficult to treat cancer where historic data of response rates in our refractory population have been less than 10%. Later this year, we'll see additional data for ABT-414 and second-line GBM. If the data are consistent with the earlier studies, these trials could represent a path to a regulatory submission in the second half of 2016. In parallel, larger randomized comparative registrational trials are ongoing in first and second-line GBM. We also have an active program focused on driving the next wave of immuno-oncology development beyond checkpoint inhibitors. We recently entered into a collaboration with MD Anderson Cancer Center focused on the discovery and development of new immuno-oncology therapies. Through this agreement, we're pairing MD Anderson's cutting edge pre-clinical translational and clinical capabilities with our strength in biology, protein engineering and chemistry with a goal to accelerate the development of new medicines. We anticipate a number of immuno-oncology assets moving into the clinic this year and we look forward to sharing more details on our strategy in this area at our R&D Day in June. Moving on to immunology, our strategy is centered upon identifying treatments that offer differentiated profiles relative to currently available therapies with a goal of continuing to raise the standard of care. We have multiple mid and late stage pipeline assets with best-in-class potential. In late 2015, we initiated a Phase III program in rheumatoid arthritis for our selective JAK-1 inhibitor, ABT-494, following positive results from our mid-stage clinical trials. We are particularly excited about the results of ABT-494 in a difficult-to-treat population, anti-TNF inadequate responders, a growing segment of the RA market. Results from the BALANCE-I trial in this patient population recently presented at ACR illustrate the agent's potential to be a best-in-class therapy with ACR20 responses up to 73% and ACR50 responses up to 44%. Additional data from our Phase II program will be presented over the course of 2016 and we expect to commercialize ABT-494 in 2019. We also have additional immunology candidates in development and we'll see mid-stage data from multiple programs in 2016. Finally, in immunology, we continue to innovate with HUMIRA. Last year, we received the EU and U.S. approval for a new formulation of HUMIRA. Additionally, we have submitted regulatory applications for an improved HUMIRA Pen device. And our U.S. and European regulatory applications for uveitis are currently under review with decisions expected in the second half of this year. Moving now to virology where our goal is to develop a next-generation asset that offers high cure rate in ribavirin and ritonavir-free regimen. Mid-stage data indicate that our new pan-genotypic combination can deliver cure rates approaching 100%. And we believe the majority of patients will be well-served with an eight week treatment option. Late last year, we initiated a comprehensive registrational program including six global Phase III studies. We'll start to see data from our registrational trials later this year. And this combination is poised for commercial entry next year. In neurology, we're focused on therapies for the treatment of conditions like Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's, MS, and other neuro-degenerative conditions. ZINBRYTA is our first in class investigational biologic for relapse-remitting multiple sclerosis which is currently under regulatory review in the U.S. and Europe with the regulatory decisions expected in the first half of 2016. The filings are based upon strong pivotal trial results which demonstrated patients treated with ZINBRYTA had a statistically significant 45% reduction in annualized relapse rates versus AVONEX, an established standard of care. Given the product profile, novel mechanism of action and its once monthly subcutaneous administration, we believe ZINBRYTA has the potential to be an important therapeutic option. Last year, we entered into a collaboration with C2N Diagnostics to develop and commercialize a portfolio of anti-tau antibodies for the treatment of serious neuro-degenerative disorders. Last year, we initiated a Phase I program in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy, and we remain on track to start clinical development with C2N in Alzheimer's disease in 2016. Finally, Elagolix is our compound in Phase III development for endometriosis and uterine fibroids. Our goal with Elagolix in endometriosis is to bring to market an oral therapy that provides a high level of efficacy, with minimal menopausal side effects such as hot flush while preserving bone health. We reported positive results from our first pivotal trial in endometriosis last year, and plan to report top line results from the second pivotal study in the first quarter of 2016. We also plan to present more detailed findings from both registrational trials at the ASRM Meeting in October. We also recently initiated a Phase III program investigating the effect of Elagolix on bleeding related to uterine fibroids. So in summary, we continue to make significant progress with our pipeline, and are on track to advance several programs in 2016. We've built a promising late-stage pipeline comprised of potentially transformational medicines, which will fuel our future growth. We look forward to covering our full pipeline in more detail, and an R&D pipeline review to be held in Chicago during the 2016 ASCO Meeting in June. We hope you will join us. With that, I'll turn the call over to Bill for additional comments on the quarter, and our 2016 guidance.

President: Thank you, Mike. This morning, I'll share with you the highlights of our full-year 2015 performance, provide an overview of our fourth quarter results, and then walk through our outlook for 2016. We had a strong performance in 2015, allowing us to raise our full-year EPS guidance range twice during the year and ultimately deliver sales, margin expansion, and earnings projections that exceeded our original expectations. For the full-year 2015, adjusted net revenues were $22.8 billion, up 22% on an operational basis. We expanded our adjusted operating margin profile to 42.3% in 2015, up 610 basis points for the year. And as Rick mentioned, we reported adjusted earnings per share results of $4.29, up more than 29% for the year. Turning to the fourth quarter, total adjusted sales were $6.4 billion, up more than 24% on an operational basis. Unfavorable impacts from foreign exchange rate fluctuations reduced sales growth in the quarter by 6%. HUMIRA delivered global sales of $3.8 billion in the quarter, up 16% operationally excluding the impact of foreign exchange. In the U.S., HUMIRA sales were more than $2.3 billion, increasing nearly 21%, reflecting exceptional growth across all three major categories : rheumatology, gastro and dermatology. Internationally, HUMIRA sales were nearly $1.4 billion in the quarter, up a strong 9.7% on an operational basis excluding an unfavorable impact from exchange. Global HUMIRA sales for the full-year 2015 were $14 billion, up 19.1% operationally versus the prior year. International HUMIRA sales in 2015 increased 8.6% on an operational basis. Global IMBRUVICA net revenues were $343 million in the quarter. U.S. sales were $295 million and our international profit sharing was $48 million. Since the closing of the Pharmacyclics acquisition on May 26, IMBRUVICA has driven $754 million of new revenue for AbbVie, and we are pleased with its progress. A significant portion of our valuation for Pharmacyclics is attributed to advancing in the first-line therapy in treatment naïve CLL patients and the submission of the strong RESONATE-2 data to the FDA this quarter bodes well for this assumption. Global VIEKIRA sales in the fourth quarter were $554 million. The international launch has exceeded our planning expectations resulting in a higher mix of international sales again this quarter. As expected, VIEKIRAX, our two-drug, once-daily ribavirin-free combination for the treatment of genotype 1b in Japan launched late in the fourth quarter. Global sales of DUODOPA, our therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease grew 24.4% on an operational basis in the quarter. We saw continued double-digit growth internationally for DUODOPA with a modest level of U.S. sales as expected. Global DUODOPA sales for the full-year 2015 were $231 million, up 23.5% operationally versus the prior year. Global Creon sales were $185 million, up 22.8%. Full-year sales of Creon were $632 million, up 22.5% versus 2014. Creon maintains its leadership position in the pancreatic enzyme market with roughly 70% share. Global LUPRON sales were $235 million in the fourth quarter, up 15.6% on an operational basis. For the full year, global LUPRON sales were $826 million, up 9.3% exceeding our expectations. LUPRON continues to hold the leadership position and maintains significant share of the market. Turning to the P&L profile for the fourth quarter, the adjusted gross margin ratio was 80.5%, excluding amortization and other specified items. Excluding the impact of Pharmacyclics, we saw a nearly 100-basis improvement year-over-year. In the fourth quarter, adjusted R&D was 15.9% of sales, and adjusted SG&A was 23.9% of sales, contributing to continued improvement in our operating margin profile. Operating margin in the quarter was 40.1% of sales compared to 35.8% in the fourth quarter of 2014. Adjusting for the negative impacts of foreign exchange and the acquisition of Pharmacyclics, operating margin increased by 540 basis points. As a reminder, the fourth quarter margin profile is generally the lowest of any quarter during the year. This reflects seasonal product mix impacts from higher sales of products like SYNAGIS, a lower-margin partnered product. Net interest expense was $199 million, and the adjusted tax rate was 21.6% in the fourth quarter. Fourth quarter adjusted EPS was $1.13, excluding non-cash amortization expense and specified items. On a GAAP basis, we posted EPS of $0.92. As we look ahead to 2016, we are confirming our previously issued full-year adjusted EPS guidance range of $4.90 to $5.10. This guidance excludes $0.42 per share of non-cash amortization and non-cash Pharmacyclics acquisition impacts, as well as $0.03 per share of other specifieds. On the top line, we expect mid-teens revenue growth on an operational basis, excluding roughly 2% negative impact from exchange. Included in our top line guidance, our assumptions for our key products as follows : HUMIRA has averaged well over $1 billion of annual growth for a number of years. In 2016, we expect HUMIRA to once again be an important contributor to our performance with high-teens growth expected in the U.S. Internationally, we are forecasting mid-single-digit operational growth, reflecting the latest market dynamics including the launch of a biosimilar for Enbrel. For IMBRUVICA, we expect revenues to AbbVie of at least $1.8 billion. We anticipate global VIEKIRA sales of approximately $2 billion for the year. This level of sales includes significant international growth with a full year's of sales in Japan. We expect continued double-digit growth for DUODOPA, including an increased U.S. sales contribution. As mentioned on previous calls, we anticipate a gradual ramp for product sales in the U.S. as physicians continue to get more familiar with the product. For SYNAGIS, we expect mid-single-digit operational growth in 2016. Regarding AndroGel, we're forecasting 2016 sales of roughly $500 million. For Creon, we expect high-single-digit sales growth. For LUPRON and Synthroid, we expect sales to be roughly flat year-over-year. And we expect declines in several products with continued lipid franchise erosion as well as negative market trends in HIV and other mature products. Turning back to the P&L for 2016, we are forecasting an adjusted gross margin ratio approaching 82%. We are forecasting R&D expense above 15% of sales and we expect to see sales leverage with SG&A levels at approximately 23% of sales, well below the 24.6% booked in 2015. As a result, in 2016, we are forecasting an increase in our operating margin profile of 100 basis points, reflecting ongoing initiatives and sales leverage. Excluding year-over-year impacts of foreign exchange and Pharmacyclics, this operating margin improvement would exceed 300 basis points. We are forecasting net interest expense of about $800 million for the full year, and we expect an adjusted tax rate of approximately 21% to 22% in 2016. Regarding our first quarter outlook, we expect adjusted earnings per share in the quarter of $1.13 to $1.15. This guidance reflects growth of approximately 21% at the midpoint. Our first quarter adjusted EPS guidance excludes roughly $0.11 of non-cash amortization and specified items. We are forecasting revenue growth in the first quarter just above 20%, excluding roughly 4% negative exchange. While our full-year outlook for international HUMIRA growth is mid-single digits, in the first quarter, we anticipate an operational international growth rate of 3%. This is the direct result of a difficult comparison to the prior-year quarter where we posted a 15% increase for the brand due to shipment timing. So, as we look back, we're very pleased with AbbVie's performance in our first three years as an independent company. In 2015, we delivered sales, margin expansion, and earnings well above our original outlook, and we expect to build on that momentum in 2016 with industry-leading growth and an exciting pipeline. And with that,

C: First one here, just any perspective on the recent Amgen IPR decision on your formulation patent and what that means for HUMIRA. And maybe while we're talking about IP, maybe – any touch as well on the Coherus and BI filings on your dosing patents. That will be my first question. Second one, the mid-single digit growth for international HUMIRA, can you just elaborate a little bit more on the drivers and assumptions there. Specifically, what are you anticipating in terms of pricing or volume competition when we think about biosimilar Remicade and Enbrel?

Co.: Thank you. I just want to talk about U.S. HUMIRA sales this past quarter. I guess, 20% or 21% was a bit below consensus expectations. If you look at volume growth and price contribution, that should have led to slightly higher growth. I'm wondering if you can talk about what is happening to net price increases, are they sticking? And with respect to your high-teens guidance for U.S. HUMIRA sales in 2016, what again are your assumptions for price?

President: Hi, Jami. It's Bill. Look, I think we've seen spectacular growth numbers out of HUMIRA in the U.S. all year long, and certainly Q4, 21% isn't a bad number. And if you look at the market, TRx growth right now in the quarter was about 13%. From an inventory standpoint sequentially quarter versus quarter, it stayed roughly flat at a little less than half a month. But one thing that is impacting this number is we had slightly higher inventory numbers in the channel in Q4 2014. And if you adjust that out, it pretty much gets you back to where guidance had us. So we haven't seen anything on this brand that would lead us to pause and restate our expectations. And as I said in the call, in my comments, we're expecting high-teens growth, so it's going very well. From price perspective, it's normal for these sorts of products to take price increases towards the end of the year or the beginning of the year. We certainly have done that at the beginning of the year. So there is going to be a price dynamic on HUMIRA in 2016, and we want to see how things pan out as the year progresses above and beyond that.

Officer: And Jami, this is Rick. The only thing I would add is much like the discussion we had last quarter about international third quarter, if you look at our ordering or if you look at our growth rate patterns over the last several years, what you'll see is typically fourth quarter is a little bit lower from a growth standpoint. But I think what you're asking is are we seeing any kind of a slowdown in the U.S.; we're not. The U.S. is performing very robustly. We guided, I think, at the beginning of this year to about the same number, high teens, and obviously overachieved that. So I mean, we feel very good about the performance going forward with

Officer: Okay. On the 135 patent as I said before, I mean we're not going to go through a lot of detail back and forth. But one thing I do want to clarify is remember, IP in Europe is different than IP in the United States in how it is ultimately prosecuted. The second thing is, it's important to remember that although we withdrew the parent patent, we did it because there was one particular assay that we had a second patent that didn't have that question and therefore we pulled that patent in order to basically just focus on these other patents. So it's not like we withdrew it because we were concerned about it. And so ultimately – but that is not an issue from a U.S. standpoint, and I think that's probably as much as we're going to talk about it. Reference pricing, obviously part of what I indicated earlier is reference price, but I'd say also there are some markets where there could be some hospital negotiations also that could have an impact here. And so we factored in what we think is certainly a conservative number. But I think it's an appropriate number to be able to ultimately plan for 2016. And then on Acerta BTK, the IP, again, we have significant IP in this area. And if we believe Acerta infringes that

Officer: Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. We delivered another strong quarter with results well ahead of our expectations including adjusted earnings per share of $1.26, representing growth of 16.7% versus the second quarter of 2015. Our results in the quarter included strong top-line performance with global operational sales growth of 18%, reflecting robust growth from several products in our portfolio, including HUMIRA and IMBRUVICA among others. We're pleased with our outperformance in the quarter and progress year-to-date. We've driven outstanding commercial, operational and R&D execution resulting in strong top and bottom line results. Based on our performance in the first half of the year, we're raising our full-year 2016 EPS guidance to $4.73 to $4.83 on an adjusted basis reflecting growth of 11.4% at the midpoint. As I mentioned, several products within our portfolio are driving robust growth. HUMIRA continues to drive strong performance delivering global operational growth of more than 17% in the quarter. Despite increasing competition from new classes of drugs and indirect biosimilar competition in international markets, HUMIRA continues to demonstrate exceptional performance and durability across all three market segments. In rheumatology, HUMIRA is the number one prescribed biologic and we continue to grow our share position in the face of new competition. And in dermatology and gastro, HUMIRA continues to hold a strong market leadership position demonstrating double-digit growth year-over-year. We also continue to be pleased with the strong IMBRUVICA performance, which is tracking in line to slightly ahead of our expectations following our approval for first line use in CLL. IMBRUVICA has achieved the number one market share position in all approved disease indications in second line and second line plus treatment. And since we received the FDA approval of IMBRUVICA as a first line treatment for CLL late in the first quarter, IMBRUVICA has already gained a market share position in first line in the mid-teens and the third position in the market. And the share, continues to steadily increase with approximately one of every six patients now receiving IMBRUVICA as a front line therapy surpassing FCR which is generally considered the gold standard for young and fit CLL patients. This market share and the strong momentum underlying its performance further reinforces our confidence in our long-term expectations for IMBRUVICA. That supported our decision to acquire Pharmacyclics last year. We also saw a strong performance from several other products in our portfolio including Duodopa, Creon and Lupron. Each of these therapies within our marketed product portfolio continue to deliver durable performance. Global VIEKERA sales in the second quarter were $419 million, up 8.2% on an operational basis. Growth in the quarter was driven by our international business. In the U.S. as we described on our first quarter call, we have seen market share loss and some price erosion due to the entry of a new competitor into the HCV market. We are nearing the completion of our registrational studies for our next generation pan-genotypic HCV combination. Based on the mid-stage data, we've disclosed to-date, we believe that our new HCV combination will be highly competitive. The data illustrates that this therapy can deliver cure rates approaching 100% across genotypes. And we believe the majority of patients will be well served with an eight-week treatment option. We expect to see results from the pivotal studies in the second half and we remain on track for commercialization next year. In addition to our strong financial results, we continue to advance our strategic priorities and have made excellent progress with our R&D pipeline. Mike will cover the pipeline in more detail in just a few moments, so I'll only mention a few highlights. Importantly, we successfully completed the acquisition of Stemcentrx. We've been impressed by the caliber of talent we've welcomed from Stemcentrx, and the transition has been seamless. The addition of Stemcentrx is a strategically and financially compelling opportunity for our company, giving AbbVie a highly attractive platform for solid tumors and an extremely exciting late stage asset in Rova-T. The transaction enables AbbVie to further expand and accelerate our presence in oncology, building upon our growing position in hematological oncology. We are moving rapidly to advance Rova-T in its lead indication, third-line small cell lung cancer. And we continue to feel confident about our 2017 BLA filing strategy and launch in 2018. We're also rapidly advancing studies to evaluate Rova-T in earlier lines of therapy for small cell lung cancer including combination studies with both chemotherapy and immuno-oncology agents. Earlier this week, we jointly announced a clinical collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb to evaluate the combination of Rova-T with BMS's immuno-oncology agents in small cell lung cancer with trials beginning this year. We're pleased to be partnering with BMS to bring innovative new therapies forward that have the potential to significantly improve the survival of patients with small cell lung cancer, a disease with devastating outcomes. We've also continued to make significant progress with our hematological oncology portfolio. We're building upon our strong position with IMBRUVICA in treating blood cancers with VENCLEXTA. During the quarter, we received the first FDA approval for VENCLEXTA for patients with relapsed/refractory CLL who harbor the 17p deletion, a difficult-to-treat form of the disease, typically associated with poor prognosis. The approval for this transformative therapy was granted under breakthrough therapy and priority review designations, and the launch is still in its early stages. Although this first indication is a relatively small patient population, it is important to provide patients with this difficult-to-treat disease a new therapy with strong clinical results, and it's also important to give positions an opportunity to gain experience with a particular initial dosing regimen of VENCLEXTA to ensure patients receive the benefit of this therapy. We expect data from the Phase III study evaluating VENCLEXTA in a broader set of relapsed/refractory CLL patients to read out next year supporting our regulatory submission for an expanded label covering all relapsed/refractory CLL patients, a much larger population. Like IMBRUVICA, we believe that VENCLEXTA will be effective across a range of hematological malignancies with high unmet need, and we're actively evaluation additional indications including acute myeloid leukemia, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, and multiple myeloma among others. We also continue to make progress across other important areas of our pipeline. During the quarter, we presented positive results from mid-stage study of our anti-IL-23 monoclonal antibody, risankizumab, in patients with moderate to severe Crohn's disease. The pivotal program for risankizumab is in psoriasis and it's underway and enrolling very well. And in partnership with Biogen, we recently received FDA and EC approval for ZINBRYTA, for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. We plan to launch ZINBRYTA in the U.S. in August. In summary, we continue to be pleased with our strong execution and the significant advancements in our pipeline. As we outlined at our recent R&D day, we have eight late-stage assets which have been significantly de-risked, and have the potential to drive meaningful revenue growth in the years to come. We continue to demonstrate an exceptional track record of success, with positive clinical data and regulatory outcomes and strong commercial performance. We intend to build on this momentum to drive a high level of performance across our operations in the second half of the year. With that, I'll turn the call over to Mike for some additional comments on our R&D programs. Mike?

P: Thank you, Rick. We had another very productive quarter from an R&D perspective. With significant progress on several programs, including the FDA approval of VENCLEXTA for its first indication in patients with relapsed relapsed/refractory CLL with a 17p deletion mutation, as well as the FDA and EMA approvals of ZINBRYTA for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. Today, I'll highlight additional updates and discuss some of the milestones we anticipate in the second half of 2016. I'll start with our oncology portfolio, an area where we are growing our already strong position in hematologic malignancies, as well as establishing a strong foundation in solid tumors, which was significantly accelerated by our recent acquisition of Stemcentrx, and its lead asset, Rova-T. At the ASCO meeting in early June, we presented data from a Phase II trial in small cell lung cancer that demonstrated that Rova-T monotherapy drove a one-year survival rate of 32% in DLL3 positive patients. Almost triple that of historical third line standard of care at 12%. In addition to the impressive one-year survival, Rova-T showed the most compelling single-agent activity in terms of overall response rate, clinical benefit rate and progression-free survival in third-line small cell lung cancer. The patient population where our first pivotal trial for registration is rapidly enrolling. The confirmatory third-line registrational trial which is called Trinity began in January and is expected to complete enrollment by the end of 2016 with commercialization expected in 2018. We are also quickly advancing Rova-T in the studies to support front-line treatment in small cell lung cancer in combination with chemotherapy. The first-line development program includes a Phase I/II regimen selection study that will be used to inform future Phase III pivotal trials evaluating various combinations of Rova-T and chemotherapy. The regimen selection study is expected to begin next quarter. The first line program also includes the (13:10) study, a Phase III registrational trial evaluating standard chemotherapy followed by Rova-T in the front line setting. We expect to have this study up and running by the end of the year. We are also advancing an 8-arm basket study evaluating Rova-T in a range of neuroendocrine tumors where DLL3 plays an important role. This study is on track to begin this quarter with data expected next year. Given that many of these tumor types have low survival rates and limited treatment options available, there may be an opportunity to explore single-arm studies to support accelerated approval. As Rick mentioned earlier this week, we announced a clinical collaboration with BMS to evaluate the investigational combination of Rova-T with OPDIVO and with OPDIVO and YERVOY in small cell lung cancer. We believe that combining Rova-T with these checkpoint inhibitors could drive enhanced and sustained efficacy above what that which either approach could offer individually. Preclinical evidence and biological rationale supports our prioritization of efforts to combine Rova-T with IO agents, and we believe these combinations have the potential to establish a new standard of care. We expect to begin the Rova-T/IO combination study by the end of the year. In addition to Rova-T, we've also continued to make progress with our pipeline assets targeting solid tumors. In particular, our PARP inhibitor Veliparib and ABT-414 an antibody drug conjugate for glioblastoma multiform. We presented Phase I data for both of these assets at the recent ASCO meeting and anticipate data readouts from registration enabling studies for both programs over the next 12 months. We also continue to make good progress with our hematologic oncology portfolio. In the second quarter, the FDA updated the IMBRUVICA label to include new data from two Phase III trials supporting expanded use in patients with CLL and SLL, including overall survival data from both the RESONATE-2 and HELIOS trials. IMBRUVICA is also being evaluated in mid to late stage trials for several additional indications. With timing of data readouts and potential regulatory submissions dependent on event driven analysis of ongoing studies. In June, IMBRUVICA received breakthrough therapy designation as a potential treatment of chronic graft-versus-host-disease after failure of one or more lines of systemic therapy marking the drugs fourth breakthrough therapy designation. The FDA also granted IMBRUVICA Orphan Drug Designation for the same condition. The breakthrough designation was based on clinical data from a Phase II study evaluating the safety and efficacy of IMBRUVICA for the treatment of patients with steroid dependent or refractory chronic GVHD. Our registrational study in graft versus host disease is underway with data expected late this year or early 2017. We've made significant progress with the development of another important strategic asset, our novel BCL-2 inhibitor VENCLEXTA, which is being developed in collaboration with Roche. VENCLEXTA was recently approved under priority review for its first indication in patients with relapsed/refractory CLL with 17p deletion. Earlier this year, VENCLEXTA also received the FDA's breakthrough therapy designation for use in combination with rituximab for the treatment of patients with relapsed/refractory CLL. The Phase III MURANO trial which will support a broader label in relapsed/refractory CLL is fully enrolled with data readout and regulatory submission anticipated in 2017. Additionally, we have an active Phase III program evaluating VENCLEXTA in treatment-naive CLL patients with studies underway and progressing well. Like IMBRUVICA, we believe VENCLEXTA will be effective across a range of blood cancers including AML and multiple myeloma. We recently started a Phase III program evaluating VENCLEXTA in combination with standard of care in multiple myeloma and we anticipate moving forward with Phase III development in AML by the end of the year. In addition to the elements of the program I've described, we continue to be excited about the ongoing clinical evaluation of combinations of IMBRUVICA and VENCLEXTA, which we believe have the potential to drive profound responses and minimal residual disease negativity in a number of clinical settings. Now, I'd like to turn our attention to the immunology portfolio where we have two late stage assets, our anti-IL-23 monoclonal antibody risankizumab, and our selective JAK1 inhibitor, ABT-494. Each of these assets has the potential to significantly advance standard of care in immune-mediated conditions such as RA, psoriasis and Crohn's disease, covering the major market segments where we currently have a leadership position. ABT-494 is currently in Phase 3 development for rheumatoid arthritis, where we are studying the asset in six pivotal trials. Our JAK inhibitor has the potential to be best-in-class with what we believe will be an optimized benefit risk profile. Our development strategy is aimed at delivering a comprehensive label to cover multiple lines of therapy from first line use in methotrexate-naive patients to use in patients with inadequate response to biologics, where the highest unmet need remains in this market. Data from the ABT-494 Phase 3 RA program is expected in the first half of 2018, with commercialization targeted in 2019. We have also accelerated the development of this important asset in gastrointestinal disorders. Our Phase 2 study in Crohn's disease is well underway and data should be available internally later this year. This will enable a decision to advance to Phase 3 development by the first quarter of next year. You can expect to see the data from this Phase 2 Crohn's study at DDW next year. In addition, we recently initiated a Phase 2 study in ulcerative colitis with data expected in 2018. Risankizumab is another strategically important late-stage immunology asset. This anti-IL-23 monoclonal antibody, which we licensed from Boehringer Ingelheim earlier this year, has the potential to be a transformative therapy by providing best-in-class efficacy with increased dosing convenience. Risankizumab is currently in Phase III psoriasis trials, and in mid-stage development for both Crohn's disease and psoriatic arthritis. Interest in the Phase III psoriasis program has been strong, and enrollment is progressing very well. We continue to expect data from the registrational program in 2018. At the Digestive Disease Week meeting in May, we reported encouraging results from a Phase II study of risankizumab in patients with moderate to severe Crohn's disease, a particularly difficult-to-treat population given that the majority of these patients had previously failed treatment with one or more TNF antagonists. Based on these strong results, we intend to move rapidly into Phase III studies in Crohn's disease with registration trials commencing later this year or early next year. Another technology that we believe holds great promise is our proprietary bispecific antibody platform. We've introduced a number of these assets into the clinic in both our immunology and oncology therapeutic areas. Based on our early-stage studies, we've established proof of concept across several programs, demonstrating that these antibodies possess good drug-like properties, and delivered the desired pharmacodynamic effects. And we've learned how to successfully and consistently manufacture them. We recently evaluated data from one of our bispecific programs in development, ABT-122, our combination anti-TNF and anti-IL-17, in Phase II trials for RA and psoriatic arthritis. The data demonstrated that ABT-122 was well tolerated with a safety profile that was comparable to HUMIRA. In the mid-stage psoriatic arthritis and RA studies, ABT-122 showed ACR20 response rates as high as 75% and 82% respectively, demonstrating that the platform worked well with clear evidence of biologic activity. However, the simultaneous inhibition of IL-17 and TNFα do not produce the strong synergistic effect necessary to differentiate ABT-122 from other candidates in our pipeline, such as ABT-494 and risankizumab. As a result, we have made the decision not to pursue further development of this asset. While in this particular setting, we didn't see the high level of differentiation we were seeking, the validation of the bispecific platform gives us confidence to continue to advance other programs with different mechanisms of action. Also in our immunology portfolio, we continue to make progress with vobarilizumab, an anti-IL-6 receptor nanobody being developed in collaboration with Ablynx for patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis. Earlier this month, Ablynx announced positive top-line results from a Phase II monotherapy study demonstrating that this asset improved symptoms of RA. We expect results from a second Phase II study evaluating use with methotrexate in the third quarter which will allow us to determine next steps for development of this asset. In the quarter we also made significant progress in other key therapeutic areas and are on track to advance several programs in the second half of the year. In virology, our next-generation HCV program is progressing well. Early in the quarter, at the International Liver Congress, we presented new data on our pan-genotypic, once-daily, ribavirin-free combination of ABT-493 and ABT-530 in patients with genotypes one through six, including data on treatment durations as short as eight weeks. The data illustrate that with eight weeks of treatment, 97% and 98% of genotype one through three patients without cirrhosis treated with AbbVie's next-generation regimen, achieved sustained virologic response at 12 weeks. Additionally, 100% of genotype four through six patients without cirrhosis achieved SVR 12 with 12 weeks of treatment. Overall, we believe that AbbVie's next-generation HCV therapy will be able to address the remaining unmet medical need within this market. We continue to expect to see results from the Phase III trials in the coming months. And we remain on track for commercialization next year. And in the area of women's health, we are nearing completion of our Phase III endometriosis program with regulatory submission planned for 2017. Earlier this year, we announced positive top line results from the second of two replicate pivotal Phase III clinical trials evaluating Elagolix in premenopausal women who suffer pain from endometriosis. The results show that after six months of continuous treatment, both doses of Elagolix met the studies co-primary endpoints with Elagolix reducing scores of menstrual pain and non-menstrual pelvic pain at month three and month six. We plan to present detailed results from both Phase III studies including extension study data up to 12 months at the American Society for Reproductive Medicine in October. And our Phase III studies in uterine fibroids are underway and progressing well. This program is investigating the effect of Elagolix on heavy bleeding related to this highly prevalent condition. So, in summary, we continue to make significant progress with our pipeline and are on track for further advancements in the remainder of 2016. We have a broad pipeline that includes more than 50 active clinical development programs including more than 20 new products or indications in late-stage development or under regulatory review. With that, I'll turn the call over to Bill for additional comments on our second quarter performance.

President: Thanks, Mike. This morning, I will review our second quarter performance and provide an update on our outlook for 2016 inclusive of the recently completed Stemcentrx transaction and the BI collaboration. We're very pleased with our strong second quarter results. In addition to delivering strong operational sales growth of 18%, we exceeded the midpoint of our adjusted earnings per share guidance range by $0.06 and delivered growth of nearly 17% over the second quarter of 2015. As Rick mentioned, we continue to see strong momentum from HUMIRA with global sales of more than $4.1 billion, up 17.7% operationally. In the U.S., HUMIRA sales increased nearly 27%. We continue to see mid-teens prescription volume growth across the brand fueled by robust demand in the rheum, derm, and gastro market segments. In the quarter, we also saw a low-single-digit benefit on the growth rate as a result of customer buying patterns versus the prior year quarter. Channel inventory levels in both the second quarter of 2015 and 2016 were below half a month. International HUMIRA sales were more than $1.4 billion in the quarter, up 4% on an operational basis and exceeding our prior guidance of 3% operational growth for the quarter. Internationally, HUMIRA continues to maintain its market leadership position. We continue to see only modest overall market share gains for biosimilar REMICADE in major markets in line with our planning assumptions. And while still early in the launch, the ENBREL biosimilar continues to perform in line with our assumptions. Global IMBRUVICA net revenues were $439 million in the quarter. U.S. sales were $384 million and our international profit sharing was $55 million. Global Viekira sales in the second quarter were $419 million. This reflects weaker quarter-over-quarter sales in the U.S. due to competitive dynamics offset by our performance in international markets. Global sales of Duodopa, our therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease grew nearly 29% on an operational basis in the quarter continuing to grow by double digits internationally with a modest level of U.S. sales as expected. We also saw strong operational sales growth in the quarter from both Creon and Lupron, which were up 13% and 11% respectively. As Rick noted in the quarter, we received approval for two new products, VENCLEXTA and ZINBRYTA. We launched VENCLEXTA early in the quarter in its initial indication for relapsed/refractory CLL patients with the 17p deletion, which represents a smaller addressable patient population in the U.S. We have begun a measured commercial rollout to ensure adequate physician training and we expect a modest level of VENCLEXTA sales for 2016. For ZINBRYTA, we plan to launch in the U.S. in August. Adjusted gross margin for the quarter was 81.9% of sales. On a comparative year-over-year basis, this ratio reflects an adverse impact from foreign exchange of roughly 320 basis points. In addition, the adjusted gross margin reflects 160 basis points of unfavorable impact related to the Pharmacyclics acquisition including the profit transfer for IMBRUVICA. Adjusting for these impacts, gross margin profile performance improved by approximately 140 basis points versus the prior year. Adjusted R&D was 15.5% of sales, reflecting funding action supporting the pipeline, as well as the impact of both Stemcentrx transaction and the BI collaboration. Adjusted SG&A was 22.2% of the sales in the second quarter, down 290 basis points from the prior year. Adjusted operating margin was 43.9% sales, down 30 basis points relative to the second quarter of 2015. Excluding the negative impact of foreign exchange and the Pharmacyclics acquisition, operating margin profile performance improved 370 basis points versus the prior year. Net interest expense was $225 million and the adjusted tax rate was 20.1% in the quarter. Second quarter adjusted earnings per share excluding noncash intangible amortization expense and specified items were $1.26 up 16.7% year-over-year. Moving on to our outlook for the remainder of the year. Based on our strong business performance year-to-date, we are raising our 2016 adjusted EPS guidance range to $4.73 to $4.83, reflecting adjusted EPS growth of 11.4% at the midpoint. This includes the previously communicated $0.28 of dilution related to the Stemcentrx acquisition and the BI collaboration. We are also updating our 2016 GAAP diluted EPS guidance range to $3.82 to $3.92, which includes $0.91 per share of noncash intangible asset amortization expense and other specified items including acquisition costs and accounting impacts associated with Stemcentrx and the BI collaboration. On the top-line, we expect full year sales approaching $26 billion. Foreign exchange dynamics have run favorable relative to our initial projections and we are now forecasting approximately 1% of negative top-line impact from currency for the full year. Based on our strong performance year-to-date, we now expect U.S. HUMIRA operational sales growth of more than 20%. And we remain on track with our previously communicated full year guidance for international HUMIRA with operational growth in the mid-single digits. We now forecast an adjusted gross margin profile approaching 81% impacted by stronger performance of hedged currencies in 2016. The gross margin profile also reflects 130 basis points of impact related to the Pharmacyclics acquisition. Excluding this and the year-over-year exchange impacts, the gross margin profile is expected to improve relative to 2015 by roughly 190 basis points. We are now forecasting R&D expense of more than 16% of sales reflecting our increased R&D investments related to the Stemcentrx acquisition, and the BI collaboration. And we expect SG&A to run at approximately 23% of sales. We now forecast an adjusted operating margin profile approaching 42% on a full year basis. We remain committed to delivering on our 2020 targeted operating margin forecast of above 50% of sales. We are now forecasting net interest expense of approximately $925 million for the full year, above our original guidance of approximately $800 million, as a result of the debt we issued for the Stemcentrx acquisition. And we expect an adjusted tax rate in the 20% to 21% range in 2016. Regarding the third quarter, we expect adjusted earnings per share of $1.18 to $1.20. This excludes roughly $0.16 of specified items and noncash amortization, and includes the dilutive impact of Stemcentrx and the BI collaboration. We are expecting high single digit operational sales growth, excluding a modest negative foreign exchange impact in the quarter. So, in conclusion, we are very pleased with our performance in the quarter as we've driven strong top and bottom line growth while also advancing on our strategic priorities and our pipeline. This puts us in a strong position to continue delivering industry-leading growth this year. And with that,

C: Thanks for that. I'll start with a question for Rick, please. So, Rick, there's clearly substantial trapped value in the company because of the uncertainty for investors around HUMIRA. And you've made positive steps to deal with this through building new growth drivers through R&D, aggressive business development as well as making clear your long-term expectations regarding HUMIRA. Even so, despite great quarters like today, we're still seeing the shares trade at a substantial discount to peers. So, is there anything else that's up for discussion in terms of how you can unlock the trapped value in the company whether it's through different capital allocation, separation of your oncology platform given the valuations they can carry these days or anything else? Second, then for Mike, I wonder what does your collaboration with Bristol on Rova-T tell you about what they are thinking regarding their positioning of their OPDIVO-YERVOY combination in small cell lung cancer? And then last, maybe for Rick again, we're expecting that you'll be in place by Q4 to initiate patent litigation against Amgen. And it will be beyond just the dosing and formulation patents that have been more widely discussed today. Are those still reasonable expectations? And do you think investors will be reassured when we see what other patents Amgen has agreed that they are potentially infringing out of the patent bounds?

Officer: Okay. So, Mark, this is Rick. And I'd say we feel very good about Henry. Specifically, I'll talk myself. Specifically, I feel very good about having Henry as part of the leadership team. And certainly, yeah. I mean, over time I think we will bring Henry in. It will be most relevant when we're talking about those kind of areas where we has direct responsibility for. But Henry has already become an integral part of the leadership team and has contributed significantly. So, Mike, do you want to cover Elagolix?

P: Certainly. So, with respect to Elagolix, as you pointed out, Mark, we have a substantial lead, having completed our two pivotal Phase III studies and already being in the process of collecting longer-term data that are necessary to define benefit risk. And we think that is a real advantage for our program, and one that we're going to continue to drive as we drive forward for example with the Add-back program to further enhance the understanding of how we can use Elagolix to treat endometriosis and uterine fibroids. With respect to some of the issues you brought up on competitive programs, we don't really view potency as a primary driver here. In fact, the most potent agent in this access is Lupron and the problem is in fact the degree to which that shuts down the access. We're trying to achieve a fine titration of dose. And we believe Elagolix has the properties to allow us to do that. With respect to co-formulation, with Add-back, there is nothing that would prevent us from co-formulating with Add-back as well and we believe over time, there may be a number of strategies that could be used to protect bone and so we'll have flexibility to employ many, many different strategies. So, we feel very good about the position of Elagolix. We think it's an important treatment option and we think that it's going to make a real impact on endometriosis. With respect to relative advantages of a Q day formulation, I think that again depends on the dose one ultimately selects. And I think, when we look at the overall profile of Elagolix, we remain convinced that it's very strong.

C: Oh, sorry. Yeah. I wasn't sure if I was muted. Hey – and one shout out to Liz, congrats on getting the IR seat.

Inc.: Thanks. I want to go back to Bill's comments on HUMIRA growth in the beginning. Clearly, prescription growth has been very robust. But you're also enjoying a really nice pricing tailwind. And I think the net price benefit you saw in the U.S. was about 10% which required, I think, a 20%-plus lift price increase over the year-ago period. So, I'm curious how you would expect that dynamic to play out, both list price increased magnitude and frequency going forward, the ability to realize net price and how you're thinking about that? Seems like a very robust high set of numbers for such a big product. And lastly, Bill, since we don't have a 10-Q, perhaps you could provide cash flow from ops and receivables if you have those handy, would appreciate that.

President: Sure. Gregg, I think probably the best thing to do is dissect the U.S. number on the quarter for you. And I think that will give you a good sense of the overall dynamics of the brand. And then I'll back up and talk a little bit about the business in general. Obviously, the brand is performing very, very well in the U.S. We grew at 26.7% in the Q. Script trends, the way we see them, we're in the mid-teens for the quarter. Our price was up – it was actually up in the single digits. And then, as I said in my comments, we did see a modest impact from differences in customer order patterns. Again, we run this business at less than half-a-month inventory. But it gets a little tough to call at various times and we did see a little bit of demand differences between the Q. We had a little bit lower inventories in the second quarter of 2015 relative to 2016. So, I think the way you got to think about this is mid-teens growth from script and single-digit price. And when you add those up, you can pretty much get to the 20% number that we've guided to. From a overall price standpoint, look, I would say if you back up and look at our growth on the quarter of 18%, the majority was volume. Across the total book of business, we had a price impact of less than 4%. So, the strategy that we've actually employed for the business and certainly with our new products launching is this is going to be a product, company that's fueled by volume and not price. Obviously price, we do have an opportunity in certain markets to take it, but I would not say this is a company that is heavily dependent on price. And then, as we look out over the LRP, we tend to scale down our price expectations in the U.S. because we think that's the prudent way to model.

Officer: Yeah. And the only thing I'd add is – on the inventory discussion that Bill had, it's important to keep in perspective both periods were under a half-a-month, but even relatively small variations in a day here or a day there can have some impact on the growth rate. So, what Bill was describing is that the prior period had a inventory level that was below 0.5, right, but it was lower than what the inventory level was this period, which was also below 0.5.

President: From a cash flow and receivable standpoint, again, we're still working on the Q, so I'm not going to specifics there other than to say that cash flow remains very robust and frankly from a receivable standpoint we're collecting fine. So, but I can't give you specifics at this point in time.

Gonzalez: Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. This morning, I'll briefly discuss our fourth quarter performance and our 2016 operational highlights. Mike will then provide updates on recent advancements across our R&D efforts, and Bill will discuss the quarter and our 2017 guidance in more detail. As always following our remarks, we'll have an opportunity to take your questions. We delivered another strong quarter with adjusted earnings per share coming at the upper end of our guidance range, despite an unexpected negative impact of foreign exchange, demonstrating the strength of our overall business. Our adjusted earnings per share of $1.20 represented growth of 6.2% into the fourth quarter of 2015. Our performance in the quarter taps off another excellent year for AbbVie, for the full year we delivered more than 13% global operational sales growth and we increased our ongoing earnings per share by more than 12%. In 2016, we drove strong commercial, operational and R&D execution, resulting in industry leading performance on both the top and bottom lines. AbbVie's EPS growth for 2016 ranks us among the top growth companies within our industry. We saw exceptional growth in HUMIRA, which drove 16% global operational growth in the year, including U.S. growth of 24% and international operational growth of 4.3%. Despite increase in competition from new classes of drugs and indirect biosimilar competition in international markets, HUMIRA remains the clear market leader and continues to perform very well across the rheumatology, dermatology in GI markets. We also saw strong momentum in growth to IMBRUVICA with full year 2016 sales in excess of $1.8 billion, a 67% increase over the prior year. We're continuing to drive strong uptake in CLL, our market segment that represents the largest revenue contributor IMBRUVICA's growth over our long-range plan, and major growth opportunity for the Company. We also continue to advance our clinical development efforts in other blood cancers, supporting robust long-term growth of the brand. Further expansion into NHL and other indications represents another major growth driver of IMBRUVICA. We continue to remain excited about the vast potential for this unique asset. Global Viekira performance which was below our original expectations generated over $1.5 billion in the year, and we had continued strong performance from other products within our portfolio. Over the past year, we've seen significant pipeline advancement and achieved a number of important developments and regulatory milestones. We've received approvals for several assets IMBRUVICA and first-line CLL including a label with overall survival data Venclexta and relapsed/refractory CLL with patients with 17p deletion; Zinbryta for relapsing/remitting multiple sclerosis; and HUMIRA for uveitis, our 10th HUMIRA indication in U.S. We successfully completed registrational studies and submitted regulatory application for a number of key pipeline assets, including our pan-genotypic, next generation HCV therapy and IMBRUVICA in marginal zone lymphoma which received FDA approval last week. We also reported compelling data from several mid-and late-stage development programs that Mike is going to discuss in just a few moment. The progress we made with our pipeline including the data we share over the past year has further increased our level of confidence and de-risked many of our key R&D programs. Nemours assets in our late stage pipeline have the opportunity to generate multibillion dollar peak year sales and represent an opportunity for meaningful revenue growth in the years to come. We expect to see a significant number of regulatory and clinical mile stones for these assets in 2017, which again Mike will discuss in more detail. In 2016, we also augmented our portfolio and our pipeline through strategic licensing and acquisition activity. In June, we completed our acquisition of Stemcentrx, providing AbbVie an exciting late stage asset in Rova-T as well as the highly attractive discovery and early development platform. Rova-T represents a significant market opportunity as we advance in the first-line small cell lung cancer and other indications. In addition to Rova-T, the acquisition of Stemcentrx also brought with it a pipeline of additional clinical development programs, including four additional novel compounds currently in human trials, covering solid tumor from small lung cancer to ovarian cancer and colorectal cancer among other. We announced the collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim to develop and commercialize risankizumab, an anti-IL 23 monoclonal antibody that has the potential to be a transformative therapy in a number of immune mediated diseases. We've entered 2017 with strong momentum, and we're committed to delivering strong results. Our full year 2017 adjusted earnings per share guidance of $5.44 to $5.54 positioned AbbVie to be among the industries leaders for EPS growth once again this year. We also continue to track towards delivering our long-term objectives, which will generate double digit EPS growth on average through 2012, putting AbbVie in a very tough of our peer group. So, in summary, we're pleased with our execution and performance, and we delivered an outstanding return of our shareholders. We've also demonstrated a strong track record of managing and overcoming challenges while still delivering on our expectations. We've established sustainable leadership positions in some of the largest and most attractive market segments, and we've built the compelling de-risk pipeline within these areas, which is poised to fuel long term growth. With that, I'll turn the call over to Mike for additional comments on our R&D programs. Mike?

Severino: Thank you, Rick. In 2016, we significantly advanced and de-risked our pipeline and achieved a number of important regulatory mile stones. And we expect 2017 to be a very productive year as well with a potential for several regulatory submissions and approvals. Key data read outs and important phase transitions. Today, I'll highlight recent pipelines updates and discuss some of the mile stones we anticipate in the year to come. I'll start with oncology, an area where we are advancing our pipeline in both hematologic malignancies and solid tumors. In the area of hematologic oncology, we continue to make significant progress with both IMBRUVICA and Venclexta. Since our last earnings call at the end of October, we along with our partner Janssen received approval for test of IMBRUVICA, as a chemotherapy free option for patients with marginal zone lymphoma who have failed prior therapies. With the approval coming two months ahead of the PDUFA date, this marks the seventh FDA approval and fifth major indication for IMBRUVICA. Currently, there are no other approved therapies specifically indicated for MZL, making IMBRUVICA the first FDA-approved treatment for this disease. We also received conditional approval of Venclexta in Europe for the treatment of CLL patients with the 17p deletion or TP53 mutation, as well as in CLL patients who have failed the chemotherapy and a B-cell receptor pathway inhibitor regardless of their mutational status. We along with our partner Roche Genentech are pleased to be able bring this new treatment option to patients in more countries around the world. At the recent ASH meeting, we presented data from 25 abstracts evaluating use of our portfolio blood cancer medicines. This included results from several studies to valuating IMBRUVICA across a number of hematology malignancies including long-term data in patients with CLL showing at nearly 9 out of 10 patients achieved complete or partial response at the five year mark. These data demonstrate the promise that IMBRUVICA holds as a CLL treatment that can offer a long-term progression free and overall survival. In addition, we presented favorable efficacy and safety data in two common types of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and follicular lymphoma as well as new Phase 2 data in marginal zone lymphoma demonstrating the nearly half of patients with relapsed/refractory MCL respond to treatment with IMBRUVICA. And we also presented data in chronic graft versus host disease demonstrating complete or partial response in two-thirds of patients. For Venclexta, we presented data in a range of tumor types including Phase 1 safety and efficacy data in both, AML and multiple myeloma as well as results from mid-stage studies in follicular lymphoma and diffused large B-cell lymphoma. This coming year, there will be several key data readouts from our hematologic/oncology portfolio that could enable registration of both IMBRUVICA and Venclexta in new indications. For IMBRUVICA, we anticipate data from an interim analysis in front-line mantle cell lymphoma later this year as well as additional potential interim analysis in other forms of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Later this quarter, we expect to submit our U.S. regulatory application for the use of IMBRUVICA in patients with chronic graft versus host disease who failed prior systemic therapy. Chronic GVHD is a serious and debilitating complication of stem cell or bone marrow transplantation and with no approved therapies for the disease, there is a significant unmet medical need. We are also making progress in a number of important studies evaluating IMBRUVICA monotherapy and combination therapy versus regimen such as BR and FCR, often considered the gold standards in the treatment of CLL. In addition, studies are being run in different patient segments including young and fit patients and the watch and wait population. The results of these studies will add significantly to the breadth of data supporting IMBRUVICA, providing physicians more evidence of its compelling clinical benefits in the front-line setting. For Venclexta, we're expecting data from the MURANO study later this year, which we believe will support a broader label in relapsed/refractory CLL. Last year, we received approval for Venclexta's first indication as monotherapy in patients with relapsed/refractory CLL and the 17p deletion mutation, a small but medically important segment of the CLL market and an important first step for this exciting new treatment. Also last year, Venclexta received its third breakthrough therapy designation for use in untreated AML patients who are ineligible to receive standard induction with high-dose chemotherapy, and we recently began our Phase 3 program in AML. We look forward to additional data readouts and regulatory approvals for Venclexta in the coming years. I'll now turn to our solid tumor programs where we continue to make good progress with our late stage programs for Rova-T, Veliparib and ABT-414 as well as with our early stage oncology pipeline. In the Rova-T program, we expect to report data from the TRINITY study in the second half of the year with regulatory submission following soon thereafter. Additionally, in the latter part of the year, there is the potential for initial data from our basket study where we are evaluating Rova-T in a number of neuroendocrine tumors. We're also making good progress advancing new Stemcentrx assets into the clinic. As we expect to see up to four additional novel assets enter the clinic this year, adding to our portfolio of five clinical stage Stemcentrx program already underway. We've also continued to make progress with our other pipeline assets targeting solid tumors including our PARP inhibitor, Veliparib and ABT-414 an antibody drug conjugate for glioblastoma multiforme. In 2017, we are expecting to see data from three Phase 3 studies of Veliparib, conducted a new neoadjuvant breast cancer in both the squamous and non-squamous forms of non-small cell lung cancer. We are also expecting to see data in the second half of this year for ABT-414 and second line glioblastoma multiforme, the most common and most aggressive type of malignant primary brain tumor. These trial results if positive would support regulatory submissions. In our early stage oncology pipeline, we are continuing to explore new technologies that will extend our reach into the solid tumor market. For example, our next generation immuno-oncology programs are designed to broaden and deepen responses beyond what has been with the first way of IL therapies. We’re using novel approaches including our bispecific technology to elicit T-cell activation in close proximity to tumor cells. Over the next 12 months, we expect to have as many as five next generation immuno-oncology assets in the clinic, which adds to our growing oncology pipeline of more than 35 late preclinical or clinical stage assets. Moving now to our immunology program, where we continue to make great progress with our two late-stage assets, risankizumab and ABT-494, both of which are tracking ahead of our initial development timelines. Risankizumab, our anti-IL 23 monoclonal antibody license from Boehringer Ingelheim has the potential to be a transformative therapy in a number of immune-mediated diseases, by providing best in category efficacy and increased dosing convenience with quarterly administration. Risankizumab is currently in Phase 3 development psoriasis with mid-stage trials ongoing in both Crohn's diseases and psoriatic arthritis. The risankizumab Phase 3 program in psoriasis continues to progress well, and we expect to see data from three of the pivotal studies later this year with commercialization expected in 2019. This year, we will also see a number of additional data readouts and important phase transitions for the risankizumab, including Phase 2 data in Crohn's disease, which is successful with trigger the start of the Phase 3 program later this year as well as Phase 2 data in psoriatic arthritis with Phase 3 studies expected to begin in the first half of 2018. Additionally, we are expecting to begin a Phase 2 study for risankizumab in ulcerative colitis in the second half of the year. Our selective JAK-1 inhibitor, ABT-494, is currently in Phase 3 development for RA and has the potential to be best-in-class with we believe will be an optimized benefit risk profile. This program is progressing ahead of schedule, and we will begin to see some data from the Phase 3 RA program later in the year. We are particularly excited about this assets potential in the difficult-to-treat anti-TNF and adequate responder population, a growing segment of the RA market representing roughly 35% of the biologic treated patient population. The development program for ABT-494 in gastrointestinal disorders is also progressing well, with the Phase 2 study in Crohn's disease ongoing and a Phase 2 study in ulcerative colitis, getting underway in the third quarter. Data from the Crohn's study should be available in the first half of 2017, with Phase 3 Crohn's studies starting later in the year. We also recently began a Phase 2 study to evaluate our oral selective JAK-1 inhibitor in atopic dermatitis, which is expected later in the year. We continue to advance our early stage immunology pipeline as well with clinical programs recently initiated or expected to begin very soon for several key early stage assets, including our RORγt inverse agonists, our anti-TNF-Steroid ADC, our CD-40 antagonist and our JAK BTK inhibitor combination. Moving now to Virology where our emphasis is on addressing the remaining unmet medical need for our pan-genotypic next generation HCV regimen. We believe this objective can be accomplished with our once-daily oral combination of two novel antiviral that has demonstrated cure rates approaching 100% across genotypes with just eight weeks of therapy for the majority of patients. Last month, we filed our regulatory submissions in both the U.S. and Europe. Our U.S. application was submitted under breakthrough designation and the EU submission was granted accelerated assessment. We're on track to launch this new regimen in both the U.S. and EU later in the year, and we're also on track to submit our regulatory application in Japan later this quarter. In the area of women's health we're nearing completion of our Phase 3 program for Elagolix in endometriosis. Later in the year, we expect full data from both Phase 3 endometriosis studies including extension data, and also plan to submit our U.S. regulatory application in the third quarter. We remain excited about this potential new medicine for women with this highly prevalent condition with their few effective treatment options. In addition to endometriosis program, we have Phase 3 studies underway in uterine fibroids, and we anticipate beginning to see data from that program towards the end of this year. And lastly, in the area of neuroscience where we're focused on developing disease modifying therapies to treat neurodegenerative conditions, we recently began Phase 2 study in Alzheimer's disease and PSP with our anti-tau antibody. We see significant potential in tau-based approaches for delaying the progression of neurodegenerative diseases and look forward to one day being able to bring new treatment options to patients with these debilitating conditions. So, in summary, we continue to see significant evolution of our mid-and late-stage pipeline programs over the past year, and 2017 promises to be another very productive year. With that, I'll turn the call over to Bill for additional comments on our fourth quarter and full year performance. Bill?

Chase: Thanks Mike. This morning, I'll review the highlights of our full year 2016 performance, provide an overview of our fourth quarter, and then walk through our outlook for 2017. We had another year of outstanding performance delivering top and bottom line growth in 2016 that is among the highest in our industry. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $4.82, up more than 12% compared to 2015. For the full year, adjusted net revenues were $25.6 billion. As you aware in November, we saw a strengthening of the dollar which drove higher than expected negative foreign exchange in the quarter, additionally continued competitive dynamics in the HCV market had an impact on IMBRUVICA sales. As a result, sales for the year and the quarter came in at the lower end of our expected range. Despite these dynamics, full year sales growth was 13.3% on an operational basis, and we exceeded our EPS guidance for the year. Total adjusted net revenues for the fourth quarter were $6.8 billion, up 6.9% operationally excluding the negative impact of foreign exchange. HUMIRA delivered another quarter of strong growth with global sales of $4.3 billion, up 16.2% operationally. In the U.S. HUMIRA sales increased 23.5% compared to the prior year driven by volume growth of roughly 14% plus price. Wholesaler inventories remain below half a month in the quarter. International HUMIRA sales were more than $1.4 billion in the quarter, up 4.1% on an operational basis and in line with our expectations. For the full year 2016, global HUMIRA sales were $16.1 billion reflecting incremental sales of more than $2 billion. Full year sales of HUMIRA in the U.S. grew more than 24% with mid-teens prescription growth and a contribution from price in the high-single digits. International HUMIRA operational sales growth for the full year was 4.3% consistent with our expectations of mid-single digit growth. Excluding the impact of conditions in Venezuela, operational sales growth for the full year was approximately 7%. We continue to see good growth despite the entry of indirect biosimilar competition in the international markets. This exceptional performance was driven by HUMIRA's overall level of efficacy and safety, long physician experience and continued biologic penetration across disease categories. Its unique product profile and AbbVie's strong commercial execution has made HUMIRA the number one prescribed biologic, and it remains the undisputed market leader despite competition. Global IMBRUVICA net revenues in the fourth quarter were $511 million, up 49% over the fourth quarter of last year driven by strong prescription growth trends. For the full year, IMBRUVICA sales exceeded $1.8 billion in line with our previously communicated guidance. Global Viekira sales in the fourth quarter were $311 million, down versus the prior year and below our expectations. As we have previously communicated, we have seen market share loss and price erosion due to competitive dynamics within the HCV market. Global sales of Duodopa, our therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease grew 26.7% on an operational basis in the quarter, and we also saw strong operational sales growth in the quarter from Creon which is up nearly 15%. Turning to the P&L profile for the quarter, adjusted gross margin was 81% of sales. On a comparative year-over-year basis, this ratio reflects an adverse impact from foreign exchange of roughly a 150 basis point. In addition, adjusted gross margin reflects 50 basis points of unfavorable impact related to partnership accounting, equalizing for these impacts, the gross margin profile improved by approximately 250 basis points versus the prior year. Adjusted R&D was 17.3% of sales in support of ongoing programs in oncology, immunology, HCV and other areas. Adjusted SG&A was 23.9% of sales in the fourth quarter and operating margin profile was impacted by R&D investment related to Stemcentrx and risankizumab as well as the adverse impact to foreign currency, equalizing for these impacts, adjusted operating margin profile improved by 250 basis points versus the prior year. Adjusted net interest expense was $251 million and the adjusted tax rate was 20.2% in the quarter. Fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share excluding non-cash intangible amortization expense and other specified item was $1.20 up 6.2% year over year. As we look ahead to 2017, we expect full year adjusted EPS of $5.44 to $5.54, reflecting growth of 13.9% at the midpoint. This guidance excludes $0.89 per share of non-cash amortization and other specified items. On the top line, we expect revenue of approximately 10% on an operational basis. Holding exchange rates constant at current levels, we would expect foreign currencies have a 1% unfavorable impact on reported sales growth. Included in our top line guidance, our assumptions for our key products as follows, in 2017 we expect tumor to once again be an important contributor to our performance with mid-to high-teens growth expected in the U.S. Internationally, we are forecasting mid-single digit operational growth, if currencies hold constant with current raters reported growth would be in the low-single digits. For IMBRUVICA, we expect global revenues to AbbVie of greater than $2.4 billion with sales in the U.S. of more than $2 billion. We anticipate global Viekira of approximately $1 billion in 2017, while we are on track to launch our next generation HCV therapy later this year, based on a timing of managed care contracting cycles, we don’t expect to see meaningful sales contributions until 2018. Regarding AndroGel, we are forecasting 2017 sales of roughly $500,000. For Creon, we expect mid-to high-single digit sales growth. For Venclexta, we expect sales of approximately $125,000 million in 2017. As we previously communicated, our initial indication for Venclexta relapsed/ refractory CLL patients with the 17p deletion addresses a $300,000 million market where IMBRUVICA currently holds more than 50% of the market share. Between both assets, we will hold a strong market leadership position in this segment. For Lupron, Synagis and Synthroid, we expect sales to be roughly flat year-over-year. Regarding the P&L for 2017, we are forecasting an adjusted gross margin ratio roughly flat to 2016 inclusive of the dilutive impact of our partner products on gross margin. We expect 2017 to be a year of significant R&D investment as we provide the appropriate level of funding across our pipeline in order to fuel our future growth. This includes the incremental funding and budget annualization associated with this Stemcentrx and risankizumab programs. As a result, we are forecasting adjusted R&D expense of approximately 17% of sales. We expect adjusted SG&A to approach 21% of sales reflecting the benefit of sales leverage. In 2017 we are forecasting an adjusted operating margin profile of approximately 43% inclusive of the annualization of Stem and BI transactions. We remain committed to achieving the operating margin profile improvements that we have communicated in our long range guidance. We are forecasting adjusted net interest expense of approximately $1 billion for the full year, and we expect an adjusted tax rate of approximately 19.5% to 20% in 2017. Regarding our first quarter outlook, we expect adjusted earnings per share between $1.24 and $1.26. Our first quarter adjusted EPS guidance excludes roughly $0.23 of non-cash amortization and other specified items. We are forecasting revenue growth in the first quarter to approach 10% operationally. Holding exchange rates constant and current levels, we would expect foreign exchange to have unfavorable impact on reported sales growth of approximately 1%. For U.S. HUMIRA, we expect sales growth in the first quarter to exceed 20% over the prior year, and we expect U.S. IMBRUVICA sales in the first quarter to grow in the high-single digits sequentially over the fourth quarter. In closing, we're very pleased with AbbVie's strong performance in the quarter and the full year. We've driven strong top tier revenue and EPS growth while also advancing our strategic priorities and our pipeline. And we're well positioned for strong growth again in 2017.

Rubin: Thank you. I guess my first question is for you, Bill. On operating margins, we didn't see leverage this year in large part because of R&D expenses, and when we think about 2017, continued pressure on R&D as you are making significant investments from the partnership programs. But I think that the Company gave long-term guidance of operating margins approaching 50%. I'm looking at other companies that have a similar mix as you do, like Amgen; they have over 50% operating margins. You are well below that. Can you talk about how we should think about the evolution of operating margins going forward? Because the partnership -- IMBRUVICA will continue to put pressure on gross margins; how we think about that. And R&D as a percentage of sales, should that stay in the 17% of sales range? And how should we think about you guys getting to a 50% operating margin? Because that's a long ways away from where we are right now. Then I have a follow-up question for you, Rick. Just if you could comment on FDA's interchangeability guidance. Anything that surprised you, anything that gives you pause in terms of timing, and in terms of impact to the

Chase: On your operating margin question, first of all, I think we've made enormous progress on operating margin, if you look at where we've come since spin-off, and we certainly did last year in the third quarter -- or I'm sorry, 2015 in the third quarter communicate our intent to hit 50% by 2020. Everything as we look at it right now is still on that plan. Obviously, we're in the process of pulling the other new LRP, and we're going to look at it again, but that's our goal as a management team and we certainly are constructing a path to get there. If you look at '17 relative to '16, we're showing improvement. We had said in our long range guidance that we'd anticipate 100 to 200 basis improvements per year; it is true in '17 we're coming up a little shot of that. But you've to recognize that the annualization of Stem and BI as well as the required investment on those programs has pretty much added about a 120 basis points of dilution. So, if you back that out we would back within that range and what we communicated back at the end of '16 before we did Stem and BI. So, we think it's -- the base business is showing the right level of performance, and obviously we're having the opportunity to invest in those two very important programs and still deliver operating margin expansion. So, we're quite pleased with the number in '17. In terms of how we get to 2020 target of 50%, you have to recognize that we first and foremost have the royalty stack on HUMIRA rolling off, that will have impact on the P&L in '18 and '19, just as we've communicated before but to remind you that royalty stack is 5% to 6% of global HUMIRA sales to one-third of the stack disappears at the end of '17 with P&L benefit in '18, two-thirds at the end of '18, P&L benefit in '19. So that will give you some idea of how that flows in, and then we are always committed to driving more efficient supply chain. We're enjoying those benefits right now and we have enjoyed them since then as well as other cost containment programs. We have pretty I'd say strong targets internally to deliver on those, and then finally you can't overlook the importance of sales leverage across this P&L. Most notably '18 and beyond as we start launching new products, and we start getting the full indication to lead Venclexta, and again obviously HUMIRA in the U.S., we anticipate growth throughout that period. So, when you add all of those things up, even despite partnership accounting which we think will present about 200 basis points of drag. We feel that we got enough positives in the mix to drive that share -- of that operating margin profile goal.

Gonzalez: Good morning, Jamie, it's Rick. So, interchangeability, I think as we all know the FDA has communicated for some time that they were going to come out with this guidance by the end of '16, so I think the timing of it was, was as expected. We got a chance to go through it, I think it clearly reflects that interchangeability is a higher standard than biosimilarity, it describes that biosimilars will have to do a three-way switching study between the biosimilar and the innovator, and it strongly suggests that those studies be done with U.S. reference products, as the comparator. I'd also say that FDA devoted a considerable amount of time in the guidance to packaging and the delivery system or the device differences and potentially depending upon what those differences are, it could require a human factor studies in order to demonstrate that there's no significant difference between the biosimilar and the innovator's product. So, I think as we step back and we’re continuing to obviously analyze this, when direct biosimilars come into the marketplace, we’ve said that our strategy will be a strategy that's designed to maintain market share while maximizing the profitability of the brand. That remains the same, and I think unlike small molecules where the erosion curve is really driven by retail pharmacy substitution which is what makes it so challenging. On a small molecule very little or almost none of biologics go through retail pharmacy, they go through and are dispensed through specialty pharmacy where your formulary position is really what dictates what product is dispensed, not the individual pharmacy. So, I don’t think it fundamentally changes that part of the strategy. As far as the competitive dynamics, I think it's too early, I mean we don’t believe based on what we know that any of the single-switch studies they're being done now would meet the standard. But we'll have to see how the competitive dynamics play out as people look at this and start to design programs in order to try to achieve interchangeability and so, and it will need to see how that plays out over time.

Holford: Rick, I wonder if you could just comment with your thoughts around pricing exposure for your company with regard to every single time we get a tweet or a comment out the new government here, the new president, your stock does seem to get impacted the most of those amongst your peer group. Can you just talk about what you see as some of the biggest potential issues that could get discussed, whether it's dual eligibles or direct price negotiation and just how exposed you think your company is relative to others? The second question is on IMBRUVICA. Just Q4 just seemed a little light in the U.S. just against the volume trend. Can you just let us know if there's any factor there, like destocking, that impacted in quarter at all? Then just lastly, we are all expecting HUMIRA biosimilars in 2018 -- October 2018, I think is the date that we are mostly all looking at -- but you only give us HUMIRA numbers ex-U.S. So can you just help us at all; geographically, what's the mix of exposure in the territories from 2018 October in what you would expect biosimilars to be in the market ex-US and what percentage you wouldn't?

Gonzalez: All right. So, Jeff, maybe let me talk a little bit about pricing or reforms in the Affordable Care Act, there obviously are a lot of things out in the environment slowing around but there is not a lot of specificity yet. So, it's probably one difficult and two an appropriate for me to try to speculate on what some other changes might be. I think as we look at our business and the mix of our business, certainly, we are being conscious of pricing our products and way that is responsible and you have seen that. I think what is important for all of us in the innovation pharmaceutical space is to continue to demonstrate the value of the medicines that we have. And in many cases as you know, these medicines actually reduce overall healthcare class and pharmaceuticals are still a relatively more percentage of the overall spend within the healthcares system the Medicare system. Specifically when we look at our business, I think most of our medicines are underpinned by strong evidence base that they're not only clinically very important and very effective, but also provided good economic value proposition for the system itself and we see that in the usage that get and fully socialized systems where they can determine, what products they use into the extent of that they use those systems. You see products like HUMIRA do extremely well in those markets. Additionally, if you look at our business overall, it's not heavily weighted towards Medicare that only about 12% of our total revenues going to Medicare. So, we are not overly, heavily weighted within that sector. But I would say while our goal will be is to continue to advocate for access to innovative medicines for all patients, across all the channels, and I would hope that one of the things that as we look at reforming the Affordable Care Act that we could deal with, is the burden that donor hold and copays put on seniors in the Medicare program because I think that creates a lot of the challenge that we see. So, we'll have to see how it plays out. I mean I think some of the effort in this area I think, will benefit over the long haul that we've to see some more of the details. So, on IMBRUVICA if you actually look at IMBRUVICA, it continues to perform extremely well. And global sales were $511 million in the quarter. The U.S. was 434; that's up about 47% year-over-year. Full year we were above the guidance that we gave, slightly above the guidance we gave of $1.8 billion, that represents 67% growth. If you look at the IMS prescription growth, it's up 38% in the quarter versus the prior year, and if you look quarter-to-quarter it's up about 6%, which we think is more indicative of the growth of the brand. That was if you look at just pure revenue in the two quarters, that was about $15 million or $20 million with a channel or inventory that occurred in the third quarter, the depressed revenues in the fourth quarter. So that's essentially what you see when you look at the sequential growth quarter-to-quarter; as we look at fourth quarter as Bill mentioned in his comments, we're forecasting sequential growth in the high single-digit range -- I'm sorry in the first quarter in the high single-digit range. But it's overall we're very pleased with how IMBRUVICA is going, it continues to track where we had hoped or slightly ahead. So, we're very comfortable with IMBRUVICA. And then you're last question is on the mix of biosimilar impact outside the U.S., actually for the vast majority of our countries, the fourth quarter of 2018 is the time at which biosimilars will be able to enter the marketplace, and as far as the geographic mix. That'll be driven by the competitors; how they launch, when they get access? Maybe one other things, that would be indicative or least directionally helpful is to look at the biosimilars that are in the marketplace today. So, if you look at the Remicade biosimilar, I think they're in about 66 countries today, at least 50 countries have reimbursement or pricing for those biosimilars. They have about just under 5% of the overall market and they have about just under 25% of the molecule share, after being on the market for several years. If we look at the Enbrel biosimilar which has only been in the market for a shorter period of time; today they're approved in about 34 countries, they're pricing in 19 countries -- pricing reimbursement in 19 countries. The latest data says that they had just over 3% share of the overall category and about 14% or 15% share of the molecule. So, I think directionally that gives you a feel for how it will probably roll out, that's consistent with what we had assumed when we provided guidance back in 2015 when we described to you what we thought the erosion curve would look like. We continue to monitor this and we feel comfortable with what erosion curve continues to look like.

Schott: Great, thanks so much for the question, just had two here. First, can you elaborate on your HUMIRA volume expectations in the U.S. for 2017? It looks like another very strong year of growth again. Can you talk a little bit about price versus volume mix? And then which indications in particular are driving the growth for this year? My second question was a higher level one on immunology. You obviously have a very significant position with HUMIRA. You've got two important late-stage assets with the JAK and the IL-23, but it does seem like the competitive pressures in this space are growing. We've got new mechanisms. We've got biosimilars ex-US. We've got what seems like increased payer focus on the category. So how do you see that all playing out going forward? And do you think there's any risk that we see something similar happen here that has happened to diabetes, where we get more restricted formularies, we get more intense competition among the various players? I guess some high-level thoughts on how you see that space playing out.

Meacham: Sticking with the pipeline, Mike, just had a few for you. Can you give us some perspective on Elagolix? Just based on the extension study, what do you think the real world duration of therapy may be? Then just back to the tau program. I saw on the trial design that there's a screen for beta-amyloid by PET scan. Are you guys also looking at tau imaging in that study? Does that have much value, in your view? And then you mentioned tau being the marker of disease progression. I wanted to get your perspective on looking at tau as the marker versus beta-amyloid. And some would argue that time a patient sees tau accumulation, they may be too far gone, but

Severino: With respect to Elagolix, the ultimate duration of therapy is going to be part of the regulatory discussion and labeling discussion around that molecule, so I think it's early to predict an exact duration, but we have an extensive clinical trials program, one that included both extension studies for a longer duration of therapy and off treatment periods. So, we believe that will have the datasets to optimally support strong duration of therapy at the time of launch, and we're also pursuing post-launch Phase 3B programs to further extend both that data set and ultimately to extend duration of therapy, we believe through our approaches such as our add-back program. So, I think, it's early today to give you a concrete answer, but I think we're going to have the data to support the duration of therapy. Turning to the tau study, the a-beta imaging in that protocol is necessary to ensure that the patients who are enrolled in the study do in fact have Alzheimer's disease, and we know that if one doesn't take that measure that there are other forms of dementia that look clinically similar to Alzheimer's disease that could be enrolled essentially in error. Those patients wouldn't be expected to benefit from the therapy aimed at Alzheimer's pathology, and so that's the rule there, it's a little bit different than the response biomarkers that are being incorporated in our trial and in many others in the Alzheimer's field. We have a range of biomarkers in our program and a range of clinical measures that we think will allow us to interrogate this and those include imaging markers. We think we're going to have the data set to make a decision out of this trial. With respect to the correlation of tau with neuronal dysfunction, what we know about a-beta and tau is that the pattern of the pathology is different between the two. A-beta pathology peaks very early and is essentially stable at the time that disease progression occurs. It also doesn't correlate particularly well with the area of the brain that exhibits dysfunction. What we know about tau is the rise in tau pathology tracks much more closely with both neuronal dysfunction and clinical symptoms making, it very tightly linked in time to the progression of Alzheimer's disease. It's also very tightly linked in space with respect to the progression of Alzheimer's disease. So, there are these regional variants where you have different regions in the brain that are primarily affected and if you look at a-beta in those patients, the distribution of a-beta is essentially unchanged across them, but if you look at tau, tau pathology is most permanent in the areas where there is neuronal dysfunction. So, we think that those data will indicate a strong role of time for tau and a strong role for our mechanism. Ultimately of course the Phase 2 study and downstream studies will answer those questions definitively.

Schoenebaum: Thanks for taking my question. First, big thanks to Liz and the team for all the help she gave, in my absence, to my team. Really appreciate that, Liz. My question -- and I apologize if I missed this in the prepared remarks. But just for rest of world HUMIRA, would it be possible for you to just give us very clearly the quarter-on-quarter, that is sequential, volume change as well as the quarter-on-quarter, that is sequential, 3Q versus 4Q, change in price? And then this was sort of covered in the last -- in some ways in the last questions. But on the U.S. side, you have obviously, as you said earlier in response to a question, you have committed to limiting gross price increases for HUMIRA. I'm wondering how, in a general sense, we should think about trends for the gross to net that is the discounting that occurs. Would that be expected to rise, fall, stay the same? Maybe help us think through that over the next couple years in this new pricing environment. And if you are willing to, can you give us the average gross to net for 2016?

Porges: Bill, could you just give us a sense of your current cash position and the US/OUS cash? And then, in light of the suggestions about tax and sort of thing, have you flexibility to move manufacturing or any of your assets back to the U.S.? And is that something that you've contemplated as you are going through the proposals?

Chase: Sure. So, at the end of the quarter we had about $8 billion of cash, and I think it's always safe to assume the vast majority that is overseas given that to hold cash in the U.S. under current tax paradigm is somewhat on economical to us. So, we try to keep that cash offshore. In terms of our ability to manufacture in the event that there is a tax paradigm that favors U.S. manufacturing, look, if you look at our manufacturing assets mostly our HUMIRA, which is the main point of I believe your question. We've got manufacturing facilities in the U.S., the original plant the HUMIRA was manufactured is out in Massachusetts. We also have manufacturing facilities in Puerto Rico. So, obviously, we'd have to look closely to whether Puerto Rico is considered part of the U.S., which we obviously think it should be, but if that was the case then it would really be no requirement to move our supply chain around drastically.

Risinger: So, I have a couple of questions, some of these topics were discussed. But first, Rick, I was hoping that you could just paint a picture for us for HUMIRA patent litigation to watch ahead and how we should think about it. Just what some of the key inflection points are to watch? And I'm talking about litigation here, not the IPRs. I think everybody is pretty clear on the IPR actions that are forthcoming in late spring/early summer. Second, with respect to the tau antibody, I believe that the Phase 2 that you have discussed as having just started completes in 2020, that it's scheduled to complete in 2020. I just wanted to confirm that and I think you mentioned that there could be an interim assessment, but wanted to confirm the timing for that Phase 2 conclusion. And then finally, with respect venetoclax, could you just provide the fourth-quarter sales?

Inc.: Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us for our first quarter 2017 earnings call. AbbVie delivered strong performance with double-digit top- and bottom-line growth exceeding our guidance for the quarter. Adjusted earnings per share of $1.28 were up more than 11% versus the first quarter of 2016, and global operational sales growth was 10.1%, demonstrating the continued strength of our business. Humira continues to deliver exceptional performance with 15.8% global operational growth in the quarter. In the U.S. Humira grew 22.8%, driven by robust underlying demand, including prescription volume growth of 12%. Humira holds the number-one market share position across all three categories. Internationally, operational sales growth was 4.6%, driven by market growth across, again, all three categories. We continue to expect mid-single-digit operational sales growth for the full year internationally, despite the impact from new competitive entrants and indirect biosimilar competition which has been in the European markets now for several years. We continue to see strong momentum and growth from Imbruvica with global sales in the first quarter of $551 million, an increase of nearly 45% over the prior year. This performance was driven by continued uptake in first-line CLL, where we continue to see strong performance since our approval. In fact, the most recent market share data indicates that we now hold the leading position in new patient starts in the front-line segment, with more than 21% of patients starting Imbruvica as frontline CLL therapy. And given Imbruvica's duration of therapy, more than 30% of total treated front-line patients now use Imbruvica. We're also seeing continued strong market leadership in the second-line-plus setting across all indications. In addition to our commercial progress, we've advanced our efforts to expand the list of Imbruvica approved indications. This includes recent approval in relapsed/refractory marginal zone lymphoma and our recent regulatory submission for chronic graft-versus-host-disease. We also continue to see good progress with the launch of Venclexta in our narrow initial indication of relapsed/refractory CLL patients with the 17p deletion. Our second-line-plus market share is now approximately 20% in the U.S. Internationally, Venclexta is off to a good start, and as we've now launched into the two of the larger markets, Germany and France. We also saw a continued strong performance from several other products, including Creon and Duodopa. So overall, we're extremely pleased with our commercial performance and financial results for the quarter, and we're off to another strong start in 2017. Now moving on to our pipeline. As we disclosed last week, the Phase 3 studies evaluating veliparib in squamous non-small cell lung cancer and early stage triple-negative breast cancer did not achieve their primary endpoints, and therefore we won't be moving forward with these indications. This program carried a higher degree of risk, because we were testing a new hypothesis, that hypothesis being whether PARP inhibition enhances chemotherapy-induced DNA damage. While the outcome was not what we hoped for, we have not considered veliparib one of our nearer-term growth drivers. We have a number of late-stage de-risked assets in our pipeline. As we look forward to the remainder of 2017, we're exciting about the forthcoming clinical development and regulatory milestones. Mike will discuss our R&D pipeline in a more detail in just a few moments, but I'll briefly give you some highlights of the noteworthy events. Before the end of the year, you will see data from a dozen pivotal trials, including data readouts for our two late-stage immunology programs. Specifically, you'll see data from the first three of six registrational studies for our selective JAK1 inhibitor, ABT-494, with results from two of these studies coming in the next few months, and we'll see data from our three pivotal studies in risankizumab in psoriasis later this year. In Oncology, we'll see data from Venclexta Phase 3 MURANO trial, which will support our regulatory application for broader use in the relapsed/refractory CLL population. We'll also see potential registrational data from a study of ABT-414 in second-line glioblastoma multiforme. We're also expecting several additional Imbruvica data readouts based on interim or final analysis across the number of studies. And we'll see results from the TRINITY study, where Rova-T is being evaluated as third-line treatment in small cell lung cancer. In the area of women's health, we'll begin to see late-stage data from our Elagolix program in uterine fibroids, with results from the pivotal study expected late in the year. We also expect regulatory action on several programs, including U.S., EU and Japan approvals for our next-generation HCV offering, and we are nearing the completion of our Phase 3 program for Elagolix in endometriosis and are on track for regulatory submission next quarter. There are so many significant pipeline advancements expected this year, 2017 is shaping up to be an important year for AbbVie, and one that will further reinforce the strength of our pipeline. So as I said a moment ago, we are encouraged with our strong commercial execution and financial performance. We've built a compelling de-risked pipeline, which continues to progress well and is poised to fuel growth over the long term, and we're off to an exceptional start this year and are well-positioned to continue to deliver top-tier financial performance in 2017 and well beyond. With that, I'll turn the call over to Mike for additional comments on our R&D programs. Mike?

Inc.: Thank you, Rick. Today I'll highlight recent pipeline updates and discuss some of the key milestones we anticipate for the remainder of 2017. I'll start with our hem-onc programs, where we continue to make significant progress with both Imbruvica and Venclexta. Starting with Imbruvica, as we've outlined, expanding into new indications is an important driver of future growth. Earlier this year we added relapsed/refractory marginal zone lymphoma to our growing list of approved uses, and we continue to make progress with other indications as well. During the quarter, we submitted a supplemental new drug application for the use of Imbruvica in patients with chronic graft-versus-host-disease who failed prior systemic therapy. GVHD is a severe and potentially life-threatening complication that can occur in patients who have undergone an allogeneic stem cell or bone marrow transplant. There are currently limited treatment options for this disease, and if approved, Imbruvica would be the first and only therapy specifically indicated for chronic GVHD. In Phase 2 data presented at the end of last year, 67% of patients who failed steroid therapy responded to treatment with Imbruvica, with one-third of the responders achieving a complete response and almost two-thirds substantially reducing steroid use. Based on these data, we expect a regulatory decision in the second half of the year. Later this year, we anticipate several key data readouts for Imbruvica, including data from an interim analysis in front-line mantle cell lymphoma, as well as additional potential interim analyses in other forms of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Moving now to Venclexta. We're expecting data from the MURANO study evaluating the combination of Venclexta and Rituxan later this year, which we believe will support a broader label in relapsed/refractory CLL and help establish Venclexta as a foundational therapy in this patient population. The Phase 3 program evaluating Venclexta in front-line CLL is also ongoing, with studies been run in younger, more fit patients as well as older patients with comorbidities. These studies, as well as other combination studies with Imbruvica, are important parts of the Venclexta strategy to drive toward chemo-free regimens in CLL. We anticipate key data from the CLL14 study in older patients with comorbid medical conditions to be available in 2018. Beyond our core strategy in CLL, we are making great progress with our development programs to expand Venclexta across multiple hematologic malignancies. We have Phase 3 studies ongoing in multiple myeloma as well as AML, where we have received Breakthrough Therapy Designation. And these studies are progressing well, with key data becoming available in the 2019 timeframe. Later this year, we are also expecting additional data readouts from Phase 2 studies in indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, which will inform decisions regarding advancement in these indications. I'll now turn to our solid tumor programs, where we continue to make good progress with our late-stage programs, Rova-T and ABT-414, as well as with our early-stage oncology pipeline. Starting with Rova-T, our registrational trial in third-line-plus small cell lung cancer, the TRINITY study, continues to progress nicely, and we expect data later this year. Our submission will follow soon thereafter, enabling a commercial launch in 2018. In addition to TRINITY, we have a comprehensive development program in place for Rova-T to evaluate this promising therapy in earlier lines of treatment in small cell lung cancer, as well as in other tumor types that express DLL3. The Rova-T program includes additional studies currently underway in small cell lung cancer, including MARU, a Phase 3 study evaluating standard chemotherapy followed by Rova-T in the front-line setting, and a mid-stage combination study evaluating Rova-T with Opdivo and – with Opdivo and Yervoy in small cell lung cancer. And this quarter, we will also start the TAHOE study, a Phase 3 trial in second-line small cell lung cancer. Beyond small cell lung cancer, the neuroendocrine tumor basket study is progressing nicely, and we anticipate beginning to see early data from this study towards the end of this year. As we've discussed, the acquisition of Stemcentrx not only provided AbbVie a late-stage asset in Rova-T, but brought a highly attractive discovery and early development platform as well. In addition to Rova-T, we have four Stemcentrx assets in the clinic, and we are on track to transition several additional programs into human trials this year, adding to our growing oncology pipeline, which includes more than 35 late preclinical or early clinical stage assets. Beyond Rova-T and our other Stemcentrx assets, we're continuing to make progress with our solid tumor programs, including our antibody drug conjugate for glioblastoma multiforme, ABT-414, which was granted Fast Track Designation earlier this month. At the upcoming ASCO meeting, we plan to present full data from the Phase 1 study of ABT-414 in glioblastoma, including overall survival and progression-free survival data. And later this year, we'll see data from the Phase 2 study in second line GBM that, if positive, would support regulatory submission. In our early-stage oncology pipeline, we continue to build capabilities and explore new technologies that will extend our reach in the solid tumor market. We're making good progress with our next-generation immuno-oncology programs and other novel approaches such as our bispecific technology, with a number of assets having recently entered the clinic and more study starts expected through the remainder of 2017. Moving now to our HCV program, where we recently received priority review from the FDA for our pan-genotypic next-generation HCV therapy. In the quarter we also received EMA accelerated assessment and priority review in Japan. Last week at the International Liver Congress we presented new results from our Phase 3 program, including data from the EXPEDITION-1 and ENDURANCE-3 studies, which together with previously reported data reinforce our next-generation therapies' potential to provide high cure rates and a shorter treatment duration for the majority of patients across all genotypes, including patients with compensated cirrhosis and those with genotype 3 infection. Results from EXPEDITION-1 demonstrated that 99% of patients with compensated cirrhosis achieved SVR12 with 12 weeks of treatment across genotypes 1, 2, 4, 5, and 6. We also presented data from ENDURANCE-3 in patients with genotype 3, the second most common (16:22-16:33) genotype globally and the most challenging to treat. These results showed that with just eight weeks of treatment, 95% of genotype 3 patients without cirrhosis and who are new to treatment achieved SVR12 with our next-generation therapy. We're excited about the high cure rates across all major genotypes and the results in difficult-to-treat patients that we've seen in our Phase 3 program, and remain confident that our pan-genotypic once-daily ribavirin-free HCV therapy will be competitively positioned within this market. We remain on track for regulatory approval in the U.S., EU, and Japan later this year. Moving now to our immunology programs, where we have two very promising late-stage assets, risankizumab and ABT-494, each with the potential to significantly advance standard of care in a number of immune-mediated conditions. Risankizumab, our anti-IL-23 monoclonal antibody licensed from Boehringer Ingelheim, has the potential to provide best-in-class efficacy and increased dosing convenience with quarterly administration. Results from the Phase 2 study of risankizumab in psoriasis were recently published in the New England Journal of Medicine. These data show that selective blockade of IL-23 with risankizumab was associated with a superior clinical response compared to Stelara. In this study, approximately 2.5 times as many patients achieved PASI 100 with risankizumab compared with those receiving Stelara. The Phase 3 program in psoriasis is well underway, and we look forward to seeing data from three of the pivotal studies later this year, with commercialization expected in 2019. Earlier this month, we also published results from a proof-of-concept Phase 2 study of risankizumab in Crohn's disease. Results from this study show that patients receiving risankizumab achieved higher clinical and endoscopic remission rates than placebo, suggesting that blocking IL-23 could be a very promising therapeutic approach in Crohn's disease. 52-week data from the open-label maintenance portion of this trial will be shared in a late-breaking oral presentation at the upcoming DDW meeting in May. Phase 3 studies in Crohn's disease will be starting soon. This year we'll also see Phase 2 data in psoriatic arthritis, with Phase 3 studies expected to begin in the first half of 2018. Additionally, we are expecting to begin a Phase 2 for risankizumab in ulcerative colitis in the second half of the year. Moving now to our selective JAK1 inhibitor, ABT-494, where we continue to make significant progress with our development programs in RA and inflammatory bowel diseases. At the upcoming DDW meeting, we'll be presenting data from the Phase 2 CELEST study in Crohn's disease, showing that treatment with ABT-494 demonstrated endoscopic improvement and clinical benefit as induction therapy in patients with moderate to severe refractory Crohn's disease. Based on these strong Phase 2 results, we'll be initiating a Phase 3 program later this year. We have two additional mid-stage programs for ABT-494, including an ongoing Phase 2 study in atopic dermatitis and a soon-to-begin Phase 2 study in ulcerative colitis. Turning our attention to rheumatoid arthritis, we expect to begin seeing data from the first of six Phase 3 RA studies in the coming months, with top-line data from the SELECT-NEXT trial in patients who have failed conventional DMARDs expected in June, and data from the SELECT-BEYOND study in biologic inadequate responders expected later in the summer. We plan to present full data from both of these studies at a medical meeting later this year. We believe ABT-494 has the potential to be best-in-class with an optimized benefit risk profile, and we are particularly excited about this asset's potential in the difficult-to-treat anti-TNF inadequate responder population, a growing segment of the RA market representing roughly 35% of the biologic treated population. And finally, in the area of women's health, we are nearing completion of the Phase 3 program for elagolix in endometriosis and are on track for regulatory submission next quarter. In addition to the endometriosis program, we have Phase 3 studies underway in uterine fibroids. This program is investigating the effect of elagolix on heavy bleeding related to this highly prevalent condition. We anticipate beginning to see data from this Phase 3 program late in the year. Earlier this month we presented detailed results from the Phase 2 study in uterine fibroids at the meeting of the Society of Endometriosis and Uterine Disorders. These data demonstrated that treatment with elagolix provided superior efficacy and rapid control of heavy menstrual bleeding associated with uterine fibroids compared to placebo, as well as improved quality of life. Treatment with elagolix was well tolerated, with hormonal add-back therapy substantially attenuating the side effects of elagolix on bone mineral density and hot flashes. Importantly, there were no abnormal endometrial findings, demonstrating that elagolix has potential as a chronic, uninterrupted treatment for this condition. We remain excited about this potential new medicine for women with both of these highly prevalent conditions, where there are few effective treatment options. So in summary, we've continued to see significant evolution of our mid- and late-stage pipelines, and we look forward to many important data readouts, phase transitions, regulatory submissions, and approvals later this year. With that, I'll turn the call over to Bill for additional comments on our first quarter performance. Bill?

Inc.: Thanks, Mike. As Rick said, we had another quarter of outstanding performance, delivering strong top- and bottom-line growth. Total net revenues for the first quarter were $6.5 billion, up 10.1% operationally, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $1.28, up 11.3% compared to the first quarter of 2016. Adjusted EPS came in $0.02 favorable to our previously communicated guidance range for the quarter, the result of higher than forecasted sales and timing of spending. Humira delivered another quarter of strong sales growth with global sales of $4.1 billion, up 15.8% operationally. In the U.S., Humira sales increased 22.8% compared to the prior year, driven by volume growth in excess of 12% plus price. Wholesaler inventory levels were consistent between the quarters at less than half a month.

Humira's growth has been fueled by robust demand across all three segments: rheum, gastro, and derm. In rheumatology, Humira remains the number one prescribed biologic. In the gastro segment, we continued to see double-digit prescription growth in the quarter despite new competition. Humira holds the market leadership position in treatment-naïve patients for both Crohn's disease and UC, where nearly half of new patients start on Humira. And in dermatology, double-digit volume growth was driven by our market leadership in psoriasis as well as strong adoption rates for HS, which was launched in late 2015. International Humira sales were $1.4 billion in the quarter, up 4.6% on an operational basis and in line with our expectations. We continue to see good growth despite the entry of new competitors and indirect biosimilar competition, which continues to track in line with our expectations. Global Imbruvica net revenues for the first quarter were $551 million, up nearly 45% over the first quarter of last year, driven by penetration into first-line CLL and continued strong performance in other approved indications. We remain on track to achieve our full-year expectation for global reported revenues of greater than $2.4 billion, with sales in the U.S. of more than $2 billion. Global Viekira sales in the first quarter were $263 million, down versus the prior year. As we've previously communicated, we have seen market share loss and price erosion due to competitive dynamics within the HCV market. Global sales of Duodopa, our therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease, grew 19.8% on an operational basis in the quarter, and we also saw strong operational sales growth in the quarter from Creon, which was up 22.8%. Turning to the P&L profile for the quarter, adjusted gross margin was 79.9% of sales compared to 81.3% in the prior year. On a year-over-year basis, gross margin as a percentage of sales was negatively impacted by partnership accounting and exchange. Due to the seasonality of certain products, our gross margin ratio in the first and fourth quarters is typically lower than the second and third quarters. We continue to forecast a full-year gross margin ratio of approximately 81%. Adjusted R&D was 16.9% of sales, in support of our ongoing pipeline programs in oncology, immunology, HCV and other areas. On a year-over-year basis, R&D as a percentage of sales increased due to the spend related to the Stemcentrx and risankizumab deals, both of which closed in the second quarter of last year. Adjusted SG&A was 20.7% of sales in the first quarter, down 190 basis points versus the prior year, driven by sales leverage and operational efficiencies. The operating margin profile was impacted by R&D investment related to Stemcentrx and risankizumab, as well as the adverse impact of foreign currency. Adjusting for these items, the adjusted operating margin profile grew by 120 basis points versus the prior year. We continue to forecast a full-year operating margin ratio of approximately 43%. Net interest expense was $247 million and the adjusted tax rate was 18.2% in the quarter. The first quarter tax rate benefited from the adoption of new accounting rules for the treatment of taxes on equity compensation. This impact is most pronounced in the first quarter, given the timing of equity grants, and was contemplated in our guidance. First quarter adjusted earnings per share, excluding intangible amortization expense and other specified items, was $1.28, up 11.3% year-over-year. As we look ahead to the second quarter, we expect adjusted earnings per share between $1.39 and $1.41. Our second quarter adjusted EPS guidance excludes roughly $0.19 of non-cash amortization and other specified items. We are forecasting reported revenue growth in the second quarter of between 7% and 8%. Holding exchange rates constant at a current level, we would expect foreign exchange to have an unfavorable impact on sales growth of approximately 1% in the second quarter. For U.S. Humira, we expect sales growth in the second quarter in the mid-teens to high teens. Internationally, we expect mid-single-digit operational growth for Humira, with approximately 3% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange, resulting in low-single-digit reported growth. For Imbruvica, we expect U.S. sales growth in the second quarter to approach 35%. And with respect to the tax rate, future quarters should be modeled at above 19%. We remain on track to achieve our full-year guidance, including operational revenue growth of approximately 10% and adjusted earnings per share between $5.44 and $5.54. So in closing, we are very pleased with AbbVie's strong performance in the quarter. We've driven top-tier revenue and EPS growth, while also advancing our strategic priorities and our pipeline.

C: Great, thanks very much for the questions. Just had two regarding the TNF market. So first, can you just elaborate a little bit more on the U.S. kind of immunology market dynamics you're seeing right now? I think some of your competitors were highlighting a slowdown in the category in Q1; you obviously had very strong numbers. So just a little bit more about what you're seeing in terms of overall market dynamics, something about category growth versus the share that you're able to achieve here? My second question was on the contracting cycle we're entering into. Just any more granularity on what portion of your business is already contracted out through 2018, versus how much is up for renewal, as we enter this next contracting season? I think you mentioned in the 3Q call that a good portion of the business was contracted for both 2017 and 2018, but just trying to get a little bit more granularity as we think about some of the news flow over the next few quarters?

Inc.: Okay. I mean, as far as the TNF market dynamics, they're obviously being affected by two major factors. One is what we've discussed in I guess the last two calls now, the impact that is happening as it relates to Enbrel in the marketplace. And then the second is really an IMS reporting issue, where IMS, a fairly significant account had blinded their data back in the summer of last year I believe. It is an account that we have very high share in, so we're over-indexed in that particular account. And although we're trying to make adjustments, or they're trying to make adjustments to the data, it obviously is depressing both the category and depressing what IMS reports as it relates to Humira. And so, that's just an anomaly in the data. It's going to correct itself as we lap it, and I think actually IMS is going to try to correct it at some point here going forward. They are publishing some correction factors now, and we obviously do the correction internally, because we have our own data that we know what is represented in this particular account, so we can add back that data into the overall market. And I'd say generally speaking, Humira continues to perform just like it has historically. In fact, if you look at – it's interesting, if you look at the last nine quarters in the U.S., I think on average, those nine quarters, we've delivered 22.4%. So Q1 is not any kind of an anomaly. It's right in line with what we would've expected. The majority of that growth is volume driven. You have to remember that in our case, as we look at the market from a quarter standpoint, we know exactly the units that we've shipped, we obviously know exactly the revenue that we've generated. We have very high specificity around what the inventory levels are in the wholesaler channel, and we obviously know what the calculations are for price. So we can dissect this performance very accurately, and I'd tell you that Humira continues to perform extremely well. Overall market share in Q1 is stable, I'd say slightly down in psoriasis, just down a tiny bit, and slightly up in RA. So those two are netting themselves out with stable market share. One of things that we look at very carefully is the capture rate of new patients, and that is stable to slightly up. And then obviously if you look at the performance of the brand in the U.S., and it's tremendous. So, I think we're still very, very comfortable with how the U.S. is performing, and we expect that performance to continue going forward, despite the fact that we are seeing new entrants into the marketplace. Internationally, we continue to perform as we have last year. I'd say first quarter looks a lot like last year. If you look at our overall revenue growth it's 4.5%, 4.6%. If you adjust for Venezuela, you're talking about high-single-digit volume growth. And you have to remember, that's despite the fact that there have been biosimilars now in the marketplace, indirect biosimilars in the marketplace, for an extended period of time. Remicade biosimilars have been in for a long time, and now Enbrel biosimilars have been in the market for a substantial period of time as well. So that gives you some idea of how we're competing in that indirect market, but I'd say we're pleased with what we see in that marketplace going forward. It's tracking as we'd anticipated. As far as contracting, I don't believe we have actually ever communicated what the split is between those that are 2017 and 2018 contracts. But I'd say, generally speaking we feel good about our contract position going forward into 2018. So I don't anticipate any change in our position as it relates to our formulary positions in the

C: Morning. Two questions. First, can you just give us the latest thoughts on what's going on in the ACV market in the three different regions, and how you think that's going to play out over the next year or two? And then second, can you just remind us for elagolix, what's the hook for that product and why we're excited about it?

C: Thanks very much. I have two questions, please. First, I was just hoping that you could frame how much total cash AbbVie had at the end of last year. I'm guessing you don't have your 10-Q out yet. And also, what percentage of that was offshore, so we can better understand how much you would plan to repatriate based upon current cash ex-U.S. And maybe you can also speak to the opportunity for borrowing ex-U.S. in the event that repatriation is allowed, to bring back more than the cash on your books. And then second, with respect to Imbruvica, would you please talk a little bit about new indication opportunities over the next few years, the market potential, and the timing of specific e-trial readouts for Imbruvica over the next year or two?

Inc.: Hi, David, it's Bill. So, cash on hand at the end of the year was about $8.2 billion, and as you said, we don't have our 10-Q up, but obviously the number is at least $8.2 billion this quarter, and you'll see that soon. Look what I would tell you in terms of geographic distribution of cash, obviously under the current tax paradigm, there is a penalty for bringing back cash, back into the United States. So what we try to do is only bring back that cash that is needed to cover our U.S. cash needs, and that's typically things like interest, the dividend obviously, and then our U.S. operations. To bring back cash above and beyond that is fundamentally inefficient from a tax perspective, so we tend to try to keep our cash, the majority of it, offshore. In terms of our ability to borrow in the event that there was some type of repatriation, that would be a one-time event. Look, what I would tell you is first of all, as Rick said, we're incredibly encouraged that there is talk now about possibly allowing repatriation of cash in a tax efficient manner. We think that's absolutely the right thing to do, just not only for AbbVie and the industry, but the country. We would certainly hope that that is on a permanent basis as opposed to a one-time basis. In the event that it was one-time and without specific limits, we would certainly look to take advantage of that to the greatest extent that we possibly could, and I think borrowing would be in the cards, given that following the closure of that window, we would have the ability to continue to generate robust offshore cash and quickly pay down that debt. So in the event that it went that way and we were permitted to do that, that is certainly something we would look at. That said, it's a little early right now to know definitively how this is going to play out, but we remain optimistic.

Inc.: Okay. On your Imbruvica question, David, maybe we'll – Mike and I will sort of try to cover the question. Let me just talk about the opportunity first, and then Mike can talk about the timing of the readouts. So I'd say before you jump into new indications, one of the things I think to think through is, a big part of our strategy with Imbruvica, and with the Pharmacyclics acquisition when we talked about it, was the need to be able to move up in the first line, and CLL all by itself is a very, very large indication. And the reason that is so important is because, remember the duration of treatment on Imbruvica is much longer than other therapies now. And the fundamental benefit that patients get from a PFS and an OS standpoint is driven by those patients staying on therapy for long periods of time. And so, as you move in the front-line, you get your greatest benefit for the patient by doing that, and obviously you get your greatest benefit from a business standpoint by moving up into those first-line patients. So even within the indications we're in today, driving towards first line, CLL is a very big opportunity, but the other indications moving into first line is a critical priority. Now, having said that – and I'd say the bulk of our LRP is driven off of that – having said that though, I'd say then if you look at two – three other large categories, they have different risks associated with them from a probability of success. But NHL, I'd say we have a significant amount of data, but NHL as a category is a very significant opportunity for us, and Mike can talk about the different trials that are in that particular area to support our efforts there. Relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma patients I think is another significant opportunity for us, just because of the size of that patient population. And those will all play out over the course of this LRP from the standpoint of timing of those trials and readouts of those trials and potential regulatory approvals in those areas. And then I'd say a very high risk, but obviously high reward if it were to play out, is the pancreatic study. That is one that we've heavily risk-adjusted, and so it's not something that we're counting on, certainly isn't something that investors should be counting on at this point. But if it were to play out in a positive way, obviously that would be a very big opportunity. So those, as we look forward, I think are the most significant opportunities to describe.

Inc.: So, John. It's Bill. On share buyback in the quarter, we bought back $500 million of shares. When you see our 10-Q you're going to see a higher number. We were also buying at the end of the year. About $300 million carried over between the years. So in the 10-Q it'll look like $800 million, but actually this year we bought back $500 million. It's not our intent at this point to buy back significantly more. That said, as I said earlier, to the extent that we find ourselves with an excess of U.S. cash, we do from time to time deploy that in the market and buy back shares, given that we've already incurred the tax inefficiency of bringing it back home, and we did do some of that last year. So yeah, some of this will wind up looking – we'll have to look to see what our U.S. cash balance looks like as we progress through the year. But right now, I think $500 million is all we have in our current sights.

Inc.: And then, as it relates to the new formulation, we have rolled out a new formulation outside the U.S. in a number of countries. We essentially have a country-by-country framework that we've laid out, of rolling that out. With a brand of the magnitude of Humira, obviously, we're being careful about how we roll that out to make sure there's no market disruptions. And in fact, because it is a new formulation, we have to change the footprint of our manufacturing to be able to deal with it, because it's a different manufacturing process for the API. And so we have to basically – it's like changing the engine on a 747 while you're still flying at 40,000 feet. We're being careful about how we're doing that, as we flex the manufacturing capacity that we have to make the shift over. And so over time we would anticipate that that formulation will be in all the major markets around the world, but it will take some time in order for that to happen. Your question on DTC, I'm not sure I quite understand. I mean, we obviously have an active DTC campaign now for Humira. We wouldn't anticipate a change in that as it relates to the new formulation, if that's what you were referring to. It's not that kind of a strategy that we've built here, although there is a benefit for patients from the standpoint of pain upon injection, but that's not part of the strategy that we built in place. And then as it relates to the launches of Roche and Lilly, I think every single market has a different set of dynamics. I'm certainly not an expert when it comes to diabetes, so I'm not going to speculate on what the right strategy is there. I would tell you in the markets that Humira competes in, essentially we've had many competitors come at a low list-price strategy, and that hasn't necessarily been as ineffective, because you have to remember that list price in this market is not reflective of what the actual patient or the individual employer pays for the drug. And so at the end of the day, that strategy doesn't seem to work well in this market, especially in a brand like Humira that has the attributes that Humira has. It can serve broadly a significant part of the patient population, both within a category and across multiple categories. It's really the strength of this brand and the clinical efficacy and safety of this brand that has driven its performance.

Inc.: Yeah. Just on direct-to-consumer, will you be able to make a claim on TV that it's less painful and causes less burning?

Inc.: So with respect Veliparib, as we've said on other occasions, we were exploring a different hypothesis with Veliparib. We know that Veliparib – or we know that PARP inhibitors play a role in treating patients with inherited mutations in DNA repair, germline BRCA mutation and similar mutations. But we didn't view it as a substantial opportunity for a company like AbbVie to come third or fourth to market in that population. Essentially, the medical need was met for those patients. So we were testing a different hypothesis, and that hypothesis specifically was whether PARP inhibition would augment DNA-damaging chemotherapy; that the first hit, if you will, didn't have to be genetic, that it could from that DNA-damaging chemotherapy. We've now seen across a couple of studies that that hasn't played out in the way we had initially envisioned. We see that in the triple-negative breast cancer neoadjuvant study and in the squamous non-small cell lung cancer study. And so, while that's not the result we had hoped for, we knew going in that this was a higher-risk, higher-reward sort of approach, and that the evidence while reasonable, from a preclinical and early clinical perspective, isn't entirely predictive in this setting. And so we knew that it was going to take Phase 3 data to answer the question. We've seen the first two readouts, and those studies did not meet their primary endpoint. With respect to ongoing work, we have ongoing studies, some of which will read out very soon. So we can't speculate about what those results might be, but we will complete the ongoing studies and update you on the progress as soon as possible.

Inc.: Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. AbbVie delivered another strong quarter, with adjusted earnings per share of $1.42, up 12.7% versus last year and exceeding our guidance range. Our results included strong top-line performance, with global operational sales growth of 8.9%. HUMIRA continues to drive outstanding performance, with nearly 15% operational growth in the quarter, despite the introduction of new mechanisms of action and competition from indirect biosimilars. In the U.S., HUMIRA grew 18%, reflecting robust underlying demand, including low double-digit prescription volume growth. Internationally, operational sales growth was over 9%, driven by strong market demand. We continue to be pleased with the robust growth and strong market trends we're seeing across therapeutic categories and geographies. Another major growth driver for our business is IMBRUVICA, which continues to drive strong momentum and strong growth. In the second quarter, global IMBRUVICA sales were $626 million, an increase of more than 42% over the prior year. We continue to make significant progress establishing IMBRUVICA as standard of care in several hematological cancers. In CLL, our largest single indication, IMBRUVICA is the market share leader in first-line patients, with new patient market share of 24% and total patient market share of 33%. In second-line CLL, IMBRUVICA is now used in more than 70% of patients under treatment. We're also making good progress in other areas. We expect to receive approval soon of our sixth indication, chronic graft-versus-host-disease, demonstrating IMBRUVICA's broad utility across a wide range of serious conditions. Based on the significant long-term potential of IMBRUVICA, we've recently launched a dedicated sales team focused specifically on NHL indications. We're also seeing good progress with the launch of VENCLEXTA in our initial indication, relapsed/refractory CLL patients with the 17p deletion. We're tracking against our objective to achieve full-year sales guidance of $125 million, which represents more than one-third of the 17p deletion market. We look forward to the MURANO trial readout in the coming months and our subsequent regulatory submissions, which will significantly expand the market opportunity for this important therapy. So overall, we continue to be pleased with the progress we're making with IMBRUVICA, VENCLEXTA and our broader oncology portfolio and strategy. We also saw strong performance from several other products in our portfolio, including Creon and Duodopa. In summary, we continue to demonstrate our strong commercial performance, and we're pleased with our financial results. Moving on to our pipeline, we have made significant progress in the first half of the year with regulatory approvals, positive data and pivotal study starts. And, as we've noted, we have a number of important clinical development and regulatory milestones in the second half of this year. Mike will discuss our clinical programs in more detail, here in just a few moments, while I briefly highlight a few of the more noteworthy milestones. In immunology, we continue to make good progress with our two late-stage assets. We recently announced strong top-line results from the first of our registrational trials of ABT-494 in RA and we'll see results from two additional pivotal studies in the coming months. We'll also see data from three of our risankizumab registrational trials in psoriasis later in the year. In oncology, we'll see data from a number of pivotal programs, including results from the VENCLEXTA Phase 3 MURANO trial, data from the Rova-T TRINITY study in small cell lung cancer and data from ABT-414 in second-line glioblastoma as well as results from the IMBRUVICA SHINE trial in frontline mantle cell lymphoma. We also completed our Phase 3 program for elagolix in endometriosis, and we're on track for regulatory submission this quarter. And finally, we are anticipating U.S. and European regulatory approvals for MAVIRET, our next-generation HCV offering. Our pan-genotypic once-daily ribavirin-free therapy has a highly competitive profile, with high efficacy rates across major genotypes and in difficult-to-treat patient populations. In summary, we're encouraged by our strong commercial execution and our strong financial performance. And we're looking forward to the many pipeline milestones we expect in the back half of the year. We have a high degree of confidence in our strategy and in our execution. And we'll build upon the strong momentum we have to drive a high level of performance across our operations in the second half of the year. With that, I'll turn the call over to Mike for additional comments on our R&D programs. Mike?

Inc.: Thank you, Rick. As Rick just noted, 2017 marks a milestone-filled year for AbbVie's pipeline, with a dozen pivotal trial readouts and several planned regulatory submissions or approvals. We've continued to make significant pipeline progress over the past quarter. This morning, I'll highlight recent pipeline updates and discuss key milestones we anticipate for the remainder of the year. In the area of immunology, we continue to make good progress advancing our two very promising late-stage assets, upadacitinib and risankizumab. Both of these assets have the potential to significantly advance standard of care in a number of immune-mediated conditions. Upadacitinib, also known as ABT-494, has produced encouraging mid and late-stage data in rheumatology and gastroenterology. We believe our once-daily oral highly-selective JAK1 inhibitor has the potential to provide best-in-class efficacy with a favorable safety profile in RA and provide strong activity in a very competitive profile in psoriatic arthritis, Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. In the quarter, we reported top-line results from the first of our registrational trials for upadacitinib, the SELECT-NEXT study. In this study, which evaluated patients who did not respond adequately to conventional DMARDs, both doses of upadacitinib met all primary and key secondary endpoints. Furthermore, upadacitinib drove very high responses at the ACR20 level, but, more importantly, it drove strong levels of response on more stringent endpoints, such as ACR50, ACR70, low disease activity and DAS remission. We're also very encouraged by the DAS responses we saw, where nearly half of the patients studied achieved low disease activity in both dose groups, and approximately 30% achieved DAS remission with just 12 weeks of treatment. Upadacitinib's efficacy in this population compares favorably to other selective JAK inhibitors in Phase 3 development. And we think this drug has the potential to offer meaningful advantages over products on the market today or in development. Additionally, the safety profile in the SELECT-NEXT study was consistent with what was observed in the Phase 2 trials, and no new safety signals were detected. We plan to present detailed data from the SELECT-NEXT trial at the American College of Rheumatology meeting in November. We expect to see results from two additional studies later this year, SELECT-BEYOND in biologic-inadequate responders and SELECT-MONOTHERAPY, with data from two more trials and our regulatory submissions expected in 2018 and commercialization in 2019. Beyond its lead indication in RA, we're making good progress with upadacitinib in mid-stage studies for several other immune-mediated conditions, including Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and atopic dermatitis. And we also recently began a Phase 3 study in psoriatic arthritis. At the recent DDW meeting, we presented promising Phase 2 upadacitinib data in Crohn's disease. The results from the Phase 2 CELEST study demonstrated that significantly more patients treated with upadacitinib achieved clinical remission and endoscopic remission following induction therapy as compared to placebo. There was also a mandatory steroid taper during the induction phase of this study. And upadacitinib performed very well, with significantly more patients at the higher doses being steroid-free and in clinical remission after 16 weeks of treatment. The patient population in this study was considered to be particularly difficult to treat, given that 96% of patients in the trial had failed or were intolerant to anti-TNFs, with more than two-thirds having been previously treated with more than two anti-TNFs. The Phase 3 program for Crohn's disease will begin later this year. We also plan to begin Phase 3 studies in ankylosing spondylitis in the second half of 2017 and in ulcerative colitis in 2018. Finally, we'll see data from a mid-stage trial evaluating upadacitinib in atopic dermatitis, a prevalent chronic inflammatory skin disease, later this year. Moving now to our anti-IL-23 monoclonal antibody, risankizumab, where we are nearing completion of three registrational studies in psoriasis, risankizumab has the potential to provide best-in-class efficacy and increased dosing convenience, with quarterly administration. And we look forward to seeing results from the three pivotal trials in the fourth quarter. Additional data from the pivotal program will be available next year, leading to our regulatory submission in 2018, with commercialization anticipated in 2019. At the DDW meeting, we also presented Phase 2 risankizumab data in Crohn's disease. The results from the 52-week maintenance portion of a Phase 2 study were very promising, demonstrating that the drug was effective in maintaining clinical and endoscopic remission and response in patients who were in clinical remission at week 26. Risankizumab was well-tolerated, with no new safety signals detected during maintenance treatment. Phase 3 studies in Crohn's disease will be starting later this year. Later this year, we're also expecting to begin a Phase 3 study for risankizumab in ulcerative colitis. Additionally, we'll also see Phase 2 data in psoriatic arthritis, with Phase 3 studies expected to begin in the first half of 2018. Moving now to oncology, where we continue to make good progress with our hem/onc and solid tumor programs. Between now and the end of the year, we expect several important milestones. Earlier this week, VENCLEXTA received a Breakthrough Therapy Designation from the FDA for combination treatment with low-dose ara-C in treatment-naïve AML patients who are ineligible for intensive induction chemotherapy. This is the second Breakthrough Therapy Designation in AML and the fourth overall for VENCLEXTA. The Phase 3 study for this indication is already ongoing. In the coming months, we'll see data from the VENCLEXTA Phase 3 MURANO trial, which will support our regulatory application for broader use in the relapsed/refractory CLL population. We are also expecting additional IMBRUVICA data readouts later this year based on interim or final analyses from multiple studies. And we are anticipating regulatory approval soon for the use of IMBRUVICA in chronic graft-versus-host-disease after failure of one or more lines of systemic therapy. If approved, this would be the first treatment specifically approved for chronic GVHD, a serious and potentially life-threatening condition with high unmet medical need. In the area of solid tumors, we'll see results from the TRINITY study, where Rova-T is being evaluated in third-line or greater small cell lung cancer, with regulatory submissions following shortly thereafter. At the recent ASCO meeting, we presented full data from the Phase 1 study of Depatux-M, also known as ABT-414, in glioblastoma multiforme, including encouraging overall survival and progression-free survival data. Later this quarter, we'll see data from a Phase 2 study of Depatux-M in second-line GBM that, if positive, would support regulatory submission. And finally, in the area of women's health, we recently completed our Phase 3 program of elagolix in endometriosis. We plan to present additional data from the extension study at the ASRM Congress at the end of October, and we remain on track to submit our regulatory application later in the third quarter. Our Phase 3 program in uterine fibroids is also well underway. We'll begin to see initial top-line results from the first pivotal study around the end of the year. So in summary, we've continued to see significant evolution of our mid and late-stage programs. The first half of the year has been very productive. And we look forward to the second half of 2017 and the large number of clinical and regulatory milestones. With that, I'll turn the call over to Bill for additional comments on our second quarter performance. Bill?

Inc.: Thanks, Mike. We are very pleased with our second quarter performance. Total net revenues were $6.9 billion, up 8.9% operationally, excluding a 90 basis point unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $1.42, up 12.7% compared to the second quarter of 2016 and exceeding our guidance for the quarter. HUMIRA had another outstanding quarter, with global sales of $4.7 billion, up 14.9% operationally. This performance is reflective of continued strong demand, despite increasing competition from new classes of drugs as well as anti-TNF biosimilars. In the U.S., HUMIRA sales increased 18% compared to the prior year, driven by low double-digit prescription growth plus price. Wholesaler inventory levels were below half a month, as is our standard practice. HUMIRA's growth continues to be fueled by robust demand across all three segments, rheum, gastro and derm, and market share remains stable despite competitive dynamics. Internationally, HUMIRA had an exceptional quarter, with operational sales growth of 9.1%. This performance was driven by market growth as well as tender timing, which contributed nearly 2 percentage points to operational sales growth in the quarter. Global IMBRUVICA net revenues in the second quarter were $626 million, up more than 42% over the second quarter of last year. Robust sales in the U.S., which totaled $528 million in the quarter, were driven by our strong market positions in CLL as well as other indications, including mantle cell lymphoma, Waldenström's and relapsed/refractory marginal zone lymphoma, which was approved earlier this year. Global Viekira sales in the quarter were $225 million, down versus the prior year. In the coming weeks, we expect U.S. and European regulatory decisions for our next-generation HCV treatment, MAVIRET. Based on the timing of reimbursement decisions outside the U.S. and managed-care contracting cycles in the U.S., we expect to see meaningful sales contribution from MAVIRET starting in 2018. Global sales of Duodopa, our therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease, grew 16% on an operational basis in the quarter. And we also saw strong growth from Creon, which was up over 9% in the quarter. Reviewing the P&L profile for the quarter, adjusted gross margin was 82.3% of sales compared to 81.9% in the prior year. This was inclusive of 80 basis points of dilutive impact related to partnership accounting. Adjusted R&D was 17.5% of sales, up 200 basis points over the prior year, reflecting increased funding of the pipeline, including incremental spend associated with the Stemcentrx and risankizumab transactions. Adjusted SG&A was 20.2% of sales in the quarter, down 200 basis points versus the prior year, driven by sales leverage and operational efficiencies. Operating margin was 44.6% of sales in the second quarter, an improvement of 70 basis points versus prior year. Net interest expense was $253 million, and the adjusted tax rate was 19.3% in the quarter. Second quarter adjusted earnings per share, excluding intangible amortization expense and other specified items, was $1.42, up 12.7% year-over-year. Turning to full year guidance, we continue to forecast full year adjusted EPS of $5.44 to $5.54 per share, representing growth of 13.9% at the midpoint. This guidance comprehends full year top-line operational growth approaching 10%. For U.S. HUMIRA, we continue to expect mid to high teens sales growth for the full year. Internationally, we expect mid-single-digit operational growth for HUMIRA. Given recent foreign exchange dynamics, we would expect full year reported sales growth for international HUMIRA to approach mid-single digits. For IMBRUVICA, we remain on track to achieve our full year expectation for global reported revenues of greater than $2.4 billion, with sales in the U.S. of more than $2 billion. In the last several weeks, we have seen a weakening of the dollar versus key foreign currencies. If these rates were to remain constant at today's levels, we would forecast no material impact from foreign exchange to full year sales. This currency movement would, however, have an adverse impact on gross margin due to hedges in place on key currencies. If exchange were to hold at current rates, we would forecast full year gross margin as a percentage of sales at 80.5%. We are forecasting full year R&D expense approaching 17.5% of sales, reflecting pipeline funding and the impacts of the Stemcentrx and risankizumab transactions. We expect SG&A of over 20.5% of sales, and this would result in an operating margin profile of approximately 42.5%, inclusive of the recent impact of currency movements. We continue to expect a net interest expense of approximately $1 billion. And the adjusted tax rate for the full year should be modeled at above 19%. For the third quarter, we expect adjusted earnings per share between $1.36 and $1.38. This adjusted EPS guidance excludes roughly $0.22 of non-cash amortization and other specified items and represents year-over-year growth of 13.2% at the midpoint. We are forecasting operational revenue growth of approximately 9% through the third quarter. And if current exchange rates hold, no impact from exchange on sales in the quarter. For U.S. HUMIRA, we expect sales growth in the third quarter in the high teens. Internationally, we expect mid-single-digit operational growth for HUMIRA. For IMBRUVICA, we expect U.S. sales growth in the third quarter of approximately 30%. We expect gross margin in the third quarter to be approximately 80.5% of sales. This gross margin comprehends current exchange rates and is inclusive of the dilutive impact of partnered products. In closing, we delivered outstanding performance in the quarter, driven by our focus on strong commercial and operational execution. We expect to continue this momentum in the second half of 2017, putting us in a great position to deliver top-tier revenue and EPS growth for the full year.

Inc.: Thanks, Bill. We'll now open the call for questions. Operator, let's take the first question, please?

C: Hi, thanks very much for taking my questions. Firstly, I wonder if you can give us an update on your thoughts as to the extent of excess cash generation over the next few years. I know we've been talking about that recently, and just how you're thinking about now prioritizing that between dividends, share repurchases, and M&A? I wonder if then also, you might like to comment on Hep-C and how you're going to try and approach that from a commercial standpoint in the U.S. You've talked about wanting to look at more open formularies, I think, going forward, but what's the chance of you actually achieving this and do you think that price will have to be part of the implicit offering there?

Inc.: Okay. Jeff, this is Rick. You know, I think on cash generation, obviously, we have a business that generates significant cash flow and that cash flow is only going to grow over time. I think the distribution of that and the priorities are consistent with how we've operated in the past. Certainly, our first priority is always reinvesting back in the business. And, obviously, we've done some significant acquisitions with Pharmacyclics, Stemcentrx and others. Risankizumab is a good example of other assets that we then license, so that's always a priority. Having said that, I would say that over the course of the last four years or so, we have filled out a lot of the major gaps that we had in our therapeutic strategies and we're looking more now for individual assets, rather than larger platform kinds of plays, but that's always the first priority. The second priority is we're committed to the dividend. We're committed to a growing dividend. I think we've demonstrated that with our actions going forward across the last four years. And then as far as repurchase, today, we obviously look at share repurchase, which we've done a significant amount even outside of that related to M&A, as a more opportunistic strategy. When we have excess U.S. cash, we tend to deploy it in that fashion. You commented on there's been a lot of discussion around it. I think if there were tax reform and we had greater access to our offshore cash in a cost effective way, then that would open up different opportunities for us to be able to deploy further cash, because I think our cash generation would certainly exceed what we would view as our need to be able to redeploy it back in the business. But we'll have to see how that plays out. I think it's a little tough to handicap at this point where that will go. As it relates to HCV, we're certainly excited about MAVIRET. I think it has a profile that is highly competitive in the marketplace. The markets are very different within the U.S. and outside the U.S. I'd say if you think about this product outside the U.S., it certainly gives us the ability to compete in the broader set of genotypes, which we haven't had in the past. And it certainly gives us the ability to be able to compete more effectively in markets that have a significant genotype 1a population, because the profile of MAVIRET is more highly competitive than Viekira was in those particular marketplaces. And so, we view that opportunity as significant. We have to get pricing and reimbursement in those countries. And if you look at markets that were primarily 1b, where the profile of Viekira was more comparable to the competitive offerings, we typically get shares in the 30% range, the 30% to 40% range. Now having said that, I will also tell you that we are seeing price come down outside the U.S. And so we're going to have to be able to – if we get share gains, which we probably will, some of that will obviously be used to offset price impact that we see in those markets. Within the U.S. market, it's a different type of market. As you know, on the commercial side of the business, much of that is under contract with the market leader on exclusive contracts. So we don't see a significant opportunity for that in 2017 and probably certainly even halfway through 2018. So we don't view that as a short-term opportunity. So a significant part of our strategy will focus early on in the U. S. in the public channels, because those will become available more rapidly. And so our go-to-market strategy will be one that's focused initially in that particular area where we think there is the greatest opportunity to be able to have an impact. Now HCV is an unusual market, in that, within the U.S., if you look at the public channels versus the commercial channels and you look at currently those patients that are available for treatment that haven't been treated already, it's roughly 70%-30%. About 70% of the patients are in this public channel, Medicare, Medicaid, VA, et cetera, and 30% are in the commercial channels. And so it's a significant opportunity. And it's the part of the market that's still growing, where the commercial channel tends to be flat to declining from a patient volume standpoint. So once we get approval, that will be the area of focus within the U.S. But as Bill said in his comments, we don't view this asset as having much of an impact in 2017. It will have a more material impact in 2018 and 2019.

C: And just last quick add-on, if I can, on the pricing of Rova-T, there's a lot of pushback from investors on the sort of prices you might be able to charge for the two doses, especially in third-line small cell lung. Can you just give us any updated thoughts there on what kind of ballpark we should be in for modeling purposes?

C: Yes, hi. Thanks very much. I have two questions, one for Mike and one for Bill. So obviously, there have been a lot of questions about your JAK inhibitors PE and DVT rate, but when do you expect to publish percentages the way that we've seen for baricitinib? That was 0.47% and Galapagos was 0.16%. And then second, with respect to the timing for HUMIRA's gross margin to step up due to royalty reductions, Bill, I was just hoping that you could provide a little bit more color on that time.

Inc.: Okay. So, this is Mike. I'll take the first question on upadacitinib and the rates of DVT and PE. So I think, as we've said, it's the overall rates that are really important. We continue to monitor those. We're well within that expected rate for the population. And, of course, one wouldn't expect to see something lower than the background rate for the population in any large clinical trials program. So when we have the aggregate data, we'll present the whole picture. And we'll show what those rates are. And we'll also show, at an appropriate time, the distribution in the control period. But really right now, we're very early on in un-blinding and reporting out our Phase 3 RA studies. With respect to those other rates, the rate that you quoted for Gilead, I think we'd have to really understand where that exposure comes from. Gilead is really just getting started in RA. Most of their data comes from Crohn's disease and other inflammatory bowel disease conditions, like UC, where the patient population's very different. They tend to be younger. The risk profile is different. So I think, at this stage, it's hard to use those benchmarks that you quoted as ranges. I think you have to look at the literature. You have to look at other sources of information. And we see a very, very consistent background rate of 0.3 to 0.8. You see that in the literature. We've done our own work in payer databases and we see that same rate. And we've seen that same rate across historical RA programs, regardless of mechanism of action. Some are ours. Some are other programs. So we think we have a really good handle on that rate. And what we're seeing right now is very, very consistent with nothing other than that background rate. When we have the data from our Phase 3 program, we'll present that whole picture.

Inc.: Hi, David. The royalty burden really lifts in two different phases. The first third of it lifts at the very end of 2017, so you see a P&L impact in 2018. The other two-thirds lifts at the very end of 2018, so you see the P&L benefit in 2019. And then in terms of quantity to model, we have said that that burden is about 5% to 6% of global

Inc.: Thank you, Rick. In order to allow time for our strategic update, I'll keep my prepared remarks brief, highlighting just a few of the noteworthy milestones from the quarter. As Rick mentioned, we've continued to make significant progress across our pipeline. In immunology, we reported results from several mid and late-stage trials. Just yesterday, we announced positive top line results from three Phase III studies evaluating risankizumab in psoriasis. Data from these trials demonstrated superior skin clearance with risankizumab treatment versus two leading biologics, Stelara and HUMIRA. In the ultIMMa-1 and ultIMMa-2 trials, 75% of patients receiving risankizumab in both studies achieved PASI 90 compared to 42% and 48% of patients receiving Stelara, respectively. We are particularly encouraged by the durable rates of skin clearance demonstrated in these two studies. At one year, roughly twice as many patients treated with risankizumab achieved full skin clearance compared to Stelara, with 56% and 60% of the risankizumab patients achieving PASI 100 in ultIMMa-1 and ultIMMa-2 respectively. We also saw very high rates of efficacy in the IMMvent study, with risankizumab demonstrating superior rates of skin clearance compared to HUMIRA. Within this trial, we designed a portion of the study to evaluate risankizumab's efficacy in patients who had an inadequate response to HUMIRA. In this portion of the study, patients with an inadequate response to HUMIRA after 16 weeks were re-randomized to risankizumab or HUMIRA. And, of these patients, 66% treated with risankizumab achieved PASI 90, compared to 21% who continued with HUMIRA, demonstrating risankizumab's potential in the growing TNF inadequate responder population. We look forward to seeing data next year from the remaining trial in the psoriasis pivotal program. Our regulatory submission is on track for 2018, with commercialization expected in 2019. Moving now to upadacitinib, our oral selective JAK1 inhibitor, in development for six indications. Last month we announced top line results from the second of our Phase III studies, the SELECT-BEYOND study. In this trial, which evaluated patients who did not respond adequately or were intolerant to biologic DMARDs, both doses of upadacitinib met all primary and ranked secondary endpoints at week 12 and patient-sustained clinical response through week 24. Upadacitinib drove very high levels of response at ACR20. But more importantly, it drove strong levels of response on more stringent clinical endpoints, such as ACR50, ACR70, low disease activity, and DAS remission. We saw levels of efficacy in this difficult-to-treat refractory population, similar to efficacy more typically observed in bio-naive patients. We are aware that there continues to be significant investor interest regarding the topic of DVT and PE event rates. As we stated on our last earnings call, we have a comprehensive monitoring program in place for upadacitinib and have not observed anything in our Phase III program that we consider a signal, and the rate of DVT and PE across the program is consistent with the expected background rate in an RA population. While we can appreciate the desire to characterize event rates for upadacitinib, it is important to keep in mind that estimates based on individual events or a subset of trials have the potential to be inaccurate and misleading. The upadacitinib program is designed to provide a comprehensive safety database with more than 3,000 upadacitinib-treated patients. Evaluation of unblinded event rates and comparisons to rates in control groups and expected background rates must be done in the context of our overall program once the core studies have read out. Given the fact that we have reported data from two of our six registrational trials and that the majority of our database remains blinded, we view any attempt to calculate event rates or compare rates across upadacitinib and control groups as premature at the present time. Furthermore, providing unblinded data from ongoing studies could impact the integrity of these trials, which is something that we obviously cannot and will not do. In addition to our internal safety monitoring program, we have an independent data monitoring committee, or DMC, in place for upadacitinib in order to ensure patient safety. The DMC has access to all data from the program, including unblinded data, and monitors it for safety on an ongoing basis. The DMC is also obviously aware of the heightened interest in DVTs and PEs in this setting and has consistently made the recommendation to proceed with the program without modification. We remain very confident in upadacitinib and are investing in and advancing multiple indications in a manner that is consistent with our confidence. We also recently reported positive top line results from the upadacitinib Phase II study in atopic dermatitis, demonstrating very strong efficacy across all doses compared to placebo. In the trial, we saw very rapid response times, with upadacitinib demonstrating reduction in pruritus within the first week and improvement in skin lesions within the first two weeks for all doses. Roughly half of patients achieved a 90% or greater improvement in skin lesions by week 16. Based on these data, we plan to advance upadacitinib into Phase III studies in atopic dermatitis in the first half of 2018. Moving now to oncology, in the third quarter, we reported that the DMC for the Phase III MURANO trial recommended we unblind the study for efficacy, indicating that VENCLEXTA in combination with RITUXAN met the primary endpoint of the study of demonstrating significantly prolonged progression-free survival in patients with relapsed/refractory CLL compared to a combination of bendamustine and RITUXAN, a standard regimen in this patient population. We plan to present detailed findings from the trial at an upcoming medical meeting, and the data will support our regulatory application for broader use in the relapsed/refractory CLL population. Also in the third quarter, we received regulatory approval for the use of IMBRUVICA in chronic graft-versus-host disease after failure of one or more lines of systemic therapy. And before the end of the year we expect data from an interim analysis of the SHINE study in front-line mantle cell lymphoma, which if successful would support a label update for IMBRUVICA in this indication. We continue to make good progress with our solid tumor efforts as well, where we currently have more than 20 solid tumor assets in the clinic, 17 of which are in Phase I studies. We have started seeing early data from several of these programs, and we look forward to many more readouts as data mature over the next 12 to 18 months. At ESMO last month, we presented early data from the Rova-T BASKET study in neuroendocrine tumors. While the data are very early, we are encouraged by the findings, which showed reduction in tumor burden and confirmed responses in solid tumors beyond small cell lung cancer. Our Phase III Rova-T studies in small-cell lung cancer continue to progress, with the TAHOE study in the second-line setting and the MERU study in the front-line setting both now well underway. TRINITY, our registrational study in third-line or greater small-cell lung cancer, also continues to progress well. As we prepare for our forthcoming regulatory submissions, we've been actively engaged in discussions with regulators. We recently received feedback from the FDA that they would like to see six-month durability data as part of our regulatory submission data package. This request is not unusual in development programs where single-arm studies are being used to support approval. We anticipate that six-month data will be available in the second quarter of 2018. Therefore, we have moved the final analysis for the TRINITY study to the second quarter of next year in order to meet the FDA's request. We continue to expect our regulatory submission to follow shortly thereafter. In the area of virology, early in the third quarter, we received regulatory approvals in the U.S., Europe, and Japan for MAVYRET. And in the area of women's health, we submitted our regulatory application for elagolix as a treatment for women suffering from endometriosis-associated pain. And this morning, we announced that we received a Priority Review designation from the FDA. While 2017 to date has already been a very eventful and productive year, we anticipate seeing several additional clinical development milestones in the coming months, and 2018 will also be a milestone-filled year. With that, I'll turn the call over to Bill for additional comments on our third quarter performance. Bill?

Inc.: Thanks, Mike. We are very pleased with our strong third quarter results. Total net revenues were nearly $7 billion, up 8.8% operationally excluding a 70 basis point favorable impact from foreign exchange. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $1.41, up 16.5% compared with the third quarter of 2016. Adjusted EPS exceeded the midpoint of our prior guidance range by $0.04 due to favorable sales and operating margin profile dynamics. There was also a $0.02 benefit in the quarter related to the divestiture of an equity position. HUMIRA's global sales in the quarter were $4.7 billion, up 14.8% operationally, reflecting continued strong demand. U.S. growth was 19.1%, driven by prescription growth approaching 12% and mid-single-digit price contribution. The growth rate versus 2016 also reflected some benefit from customer ordering patterns in the third quarter of 2016. Wholesaler inventory levels were below 0.5 month in all quarters. International HUMIRA sales were $1.6 billion in the quarter, up 6.8% on an operational basis. With its unique product profile, years of physician experience, and broad set of indications, HUMIRA remains the undisputed market leader across all therapeutic categories despite competition. Global IMBRUVICA net revenues in the third quarter were $688 million, up more than 37% versus the prior year. IMBRUVICA continues to drive strong uptake in front-line CLL and remains the market share leader in CLL across all lines of therapy, with total patient market share of 35% in first-line and over 70% in the second-line-plus setting. Global HCV sales in the third quarter were $276 million. During the quarter we received regulatory approval for MAVYRET, our next-generation HCV offering in the U.S., Europe, and Japan. While we are still in the early stages of our launch, we've been pleased with its initial uptake globally, and physician feedback on the product has been very favorable. Global sales of MAVYRET approached $100 million in the quarter. Global sales of Duodopa, our therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease, grew 22% on an operational basis in the quarter. We also saw a strong growth contribution from Creon and Synagis. Reviewing the P&L profile for the quarter, adjusted gross margin was 80.8% of sales, slightly favorable versus the prior year. This was inclusive of 50 basis points of dilutive impact related to partnership accounting. Adjusted R&D was 17% of sales, up 50 basis points over the prior year, reflecting increased funding of the pipeline. Adjusted SG&A was 20.7% of sales in the third quarter, down 70 basis points versus the prior year, driven by sales leverage and operational efficiencies. The adjusted operating margin was 43.1% of sales in the third quarter compared to 42.8% in the prior year, an improvement of 30 basis points despite an increase in R&D spending as a percentage of sales. Net interest expense was $252 million, and the adjusted tax rate was 19% in the quarter. Third quarter adjusted earnings per share excluding intangible amortization expense and other specified items was $1.41, up 16.5% year over year. Turning to full-year guidance, as Rick mentioned, we are raising our full-year adjusted EPS guidance range to $5.53 to $5.55 per share, representing growth of 14.9% at the midpoint. This excludes $1.26 per share of non-cash amortization and other specified items. Our full-year GAAP guidance has been updated to reflect recent milestone payments and overall progress on the risankizumab program. We continue to forecast full-year top line operational growth approaching 10%, with minimal impact from foreign currency on a full-year basis. This forecast contemplates global HUMIRA operational growth approaching the mid-teens. In the U.S., we continue to expect HUMIRA full-year sales growth in the mid to high teens. For international HUMIRA, we expect full-year sales growth on both an operational and reported basis to be in the mid-single digits. And we remain on track to achieve the full-year sales guidance that we outlined in January for the other products across our portfolio. We continue to forecast full-year gross margin as a percentage of sales to be 80.5% and operating margin to be approximately 42.5%. We also continue to expect full-year net interest expense of approximately $1 billion, and we expect the adjusted tax rate to be approximately 19%. For the fourth quarter, we expect adjusted earnings per share between $1.42 and $1.44. This adjusted EPS guidance excludes roughly $0.41 of non-cash amortization and other specified items, which represents year-over-year growth of 19.2% at the midpoint. We expect fourth quarter operational sales growth of approximately 10%. And at current exchange rates, we would expect foreign exchange to have a 2% favorable impact on reported sales growth in the fourth quarter. In closing, we are pleased with our strong performance in the quarter, delivering top-tier revenue and EPS growth while continuing to advance our pipeline and successfully executing on our long-term strategy. And with that,

Inc.: All right. Thank you, Bill. I'll apologize in advance. This section is fairly long. As a reminder, we have posted a slide presentation to our website. These slides are intended to be a supplemental resource for today's call. However, my prepared remarks will not directly follow these slides. When we launched AbbVie in the beginning of 2013, our objective was to build a high-performing biopharmaceutical company capable of delivering top-tier financial performance over the long term. The actions we've taken over the last five years have been designed to support just that objective. Along the way, we have consistently communicated our objectives, sharing with investors how we intend to execute on our strategy and how we're tracking against our goals as a company. And over the last five years, we have consistently delivered a top-tier financial performance, demonstrating that we have created an organization that is capable of executing at a very high level. We've also consistently shown our ability to overcome obstacles and challenges while still meeting or exceeding our commitments. As we look back and we evaluate our performance versus our peer group of 11 companies over the last five years, whether measuring our performance over the past year, past two years, three years, four years, or launch to date, we're pleased that AbbVie has performed first or second in total shareholder return and revenue growth and EPS growth in nearly every one of those periods. We have met or exceeded our EPS guidance in all 19 quarters since becoming a public company, exceeding our guidance in 16 quarters. Additionally, we have acted boldly to build a robust pipeline that will sustain growth over the long term. AbbVie simply isn't the same company it was in January of 2013, and we have delivered exceptional shareholder return over this period, returning a significant amount of cash to shareholders in the form of dividends and share buybacks. To that end, today we announced that our board declared an increase in our quarterly cash dividend from $0.64 per share to $0.71 per share, an increase of 11%, beginning with the dividend payable in February 2018. Since inception, we have grown our quarterly dividend more than 77%, and we've repurchased a significant number of shares. As you recall, in October 2015, we outlined AbbVie's long-term strategic and financial objectives, including our growth prospects through 2020, our expectations around biosimilars, and our aspirations for our pipeline. Now that we are nearly at the midpoint of the five-year time period, we thought it would be helpful to recap our progress against our long-range plan as well as provide updates where appropriate. As a reminder, we forecasted the annual revenue growth on average to be approximately 10%, with total revenue growing to $37 billion by 2020. Through 2017, we're on track to deliver revenue growth of more than 10.5% annually, and we remain committed to meeting or exceeding our revenue growth objectives for 2020. We also projected the HUMIRA sales would exceed $18 billion by 2020. Clearly, we're on track to achieve that target in 2017. As such, we now expect that HUMIRA sales will approach $21 billion in 2020. This growth will be driven by continued biologic penetration, as HUMIRA maintains its strong position as the leading front-line therapy. We guided to IMBRUVICA revenues of $5 billion in 2020, and we remain confident that we will achieve that target. Our market share projections and additional indication approvals have all met or exceeded our assumptions at the time of the acquisition, and we remain committed to our guidance for IMBRUVICA. We guided to HCV franchise revenue of $3 billion by 2020. While we're currently tracking behind that projection, the strength of the rest of our business has more than offset any shortfall. We remain confident that our next-generation HCV therapy, MAVYRET, will allow us to significantly grow our position within the HCV market, and it will ultimately deliver multibillion-dollar peak-year sales. We indicated that we would achieve significant improvements in operating margin, driven by a reduction in the HUMIRA royalty burden, leverage from a growing top line, and ongoing efficiency programs. We remain on track and committed to delivering on our target of a 50% operating margin by 2020. And finally, we forecasted double-digit adjusted EPS growth on average for the five-year period through 2020. Through 2017, we're on track to achieve EPS growth of 13.6% annually, and we remain committed to meeting or exceeding our EPS objective. And while we're still in the midst of our annual planning process, based on our high level of confidence and the continued strong underlying performance of the business, we are now in a position to provide a high-level view regarding our expectations for next year. For 2018, we expect adjusted EPS of $6.37 to $6.57, representing growth of approximately 15% to 19% from the midpoint of our revised 2017 guidance range. This level of growth positions AbbVie to be among the industry leaders for bottom line growth once again in 2018. We have delivered significant earnings growth since our inception. The midpoint of our 2018 guidance is more than double the adjusted EPS we reported in the first year as an independent company five years ago. We'll provide detailed guidance for 2018 on our fourth quarter call. AbbVie's performance since we became an independent company has demonstrated our strong commitment to meeting or exceeding our objectives. Ultimately though, in order to sustain this high level of performance over the long term, a company like ours needs a robust pipeline. We have focused a tremendous amount of attention to ensuring that our pipeline is full of differentiated assets that will fuel industry-leading performance over the long term. We've spoken at length about our near-term growth drivers, a collection of derisked pipeline programs where we have a high level of confidence in the probability of regulatory and commercial success. These innovative late-stage products are designed to deliver differentiated clinical profiles with distinct and compelling patient benefits. As we look back over the past 18 to 24 months, we're pleased that we have been successful in achieving each of the key development objectives related to our near-term growth drivers. Our successes to date give us a high degree of confidence that these assets will achieve strong competitive positions within their respective markets. Our portfolio and pipeline span some of the most attractive segments of healthcare, areas of significant unmet need, including immunology, oncology, neuroscience, and virology, with focused investments in other areas where we have unique assets or strong strategic fit. AbbVie's leadership in immunology stems from more than a decade of experience developing 13 indications for HUMIRA and actively treating more than 1 million patients worldwide. HUMIRA has played an integral role in defining the standard of care. Based on recent developments, including the settlement of our patent dispute with Amgen, we remain confident that our IP will protect HUMIRA from direct biosimilar competition in the U.S. until at least 2022. Over the next five years, HUMIRA will continue to drive meaningful growth. And following the entry of direct biosimilar competition, whether in the U.S. or internationally, we believe our strategy will enable HUMIRA to maintain its strong and meaningful market share position with a manageable erosion curve. As a result, HUMIRA will remain a significant source of cash flow for the company for many years to come Another equally important yet underappreciated aspect of our immunology portfolio is our industry-leading immunology pipeline. Our two late-stage pipeline assets, risankizumab and upadacitinib, each have the potential to significantly advance standard of care. With the forthcoming commercialization of these two assets, our immunology franchise will evolve from a single product with HUMIRA to a portfolio of therapies that has the potential to restate our current leadership position and move into new areas, such as atopic dermatitis. Risankizumab, our anti-IL-23 monoclonal antibody licensed from Boehringer Ingelheim, has the potential to become a transformative therapy in a number of immune-mediated diseases by potentially providing an unmatched level of efficacy, durable effect, and safety across a broad set of indications, and all with the convenience of quarterly dosing. As Mike mentioned, we're very pleased with the strong Phase III results we reported this week, which demonstrated very high levels of skin clearance, and we look forward to submitting our regulatory application next year. Beyond psoriasis, risankizumab is currently being evaluated in Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, and psoriatic arthritis. We believe risankizumab could be an important treatment option in the IBD segment particularly in patients with an inadequate response to biologics, where there's a growing patient population and a high unmet need. We reported mid-stage data in Crohn's disease where risankizumab demonstrated strong activity, with highly impressive remission and endoscopic response scores. The risankizumab Phase III Crohn's disease program is expected to begin this year, and the Phase III program in ulcerative colitis is on track to start next year. We remain extremely excited about this asset's potential and believe risankizumab represents a significant opportunity for AbbVie. We estimate the nominal sales potential for risankizumab for the four indications I just outlined to be approximately $5 billion in 2025. Moving now to our other late-stage immunology asset, upadacitinib, our oral selective JAK1 inhibitor in clinical development for six indications, upadacitinib has produced strong mid and late-stage data in rheumatology, dermatology, and GI. This summer, we reported top line results from the first two Phase III studies from the pivotal program in RA. Upadacitinib performed extremely well in both studies, meeting all primary and key secondary endpoints, with a safety profile in line with previous studies and as we expected. Upadacitinib drove very high levels of response on disease activity and remission endpoints, and the results from both studies compare favorably to other selective JAK inhibitors which are in development. We think upadacitinib has the potential to be a best-in-class therapy in RA and could offer meaningful advantages over products on the market today or in development. We expect to see data from an additional pivotal study later this year, with data from two more trials and our regulatory submission expected in 2018 and commercialization in 2019. In addition to RA, upadacitinib has the potential to launch in five additional indications by 2022 : Crohn's disease, atopic dermatitis, psoriatic arthritis, ulcerative colitis, and ankylosing spondylitis. In atopic dermatitis, we recently reported positive top line Phase II results, demonstrating strong efficacy across all doses and a clean safety profile. We saw rapid response time, with reduction in itch within the first week and improvements in skin within the first two weeks for all doses. We're pleased with these results and believe this further demonstrates that selective JAK1 inhibition may be a novel therapeutic approach across a broad range of immune-mediated diseases. Based on the data, we plan to advance into Phase III studies in atopic dermatitis in the first half of 2018. In IBD, similar to risankizumab, ABT-494 has demonstrated impressive remission and endoscopic response scores in Crohn's disease, and we expect to begin Phase III studies soon. This agent holds strong promise in IBD, where current products show a waning response and high discontinuation rates, and we're very excited about this drug's potential within this segment of the market. All told, we believe upadacitinib will be a significant growth driver for AbbVie, with nominal sales across six indications of approximately $6.5 billion in 2025. Moving now to oncology, where one of our key strategic priorities is to expand our already strong position in hematological malignancies. Despite the emergence of new treatments that have improved outcomes, unmet needs remain relatively high. We've built a strategic portfolio of assets, including multiple mechanisms of action that have vast potential alone and in combination. With IMBRUVICA and VENCLEXTA, AbbVie has a set of assets that is capable of transforming treatment across a wide range of blood cancers. We're targeting CLL, AML, non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, and multiple myelomas as well as other conditions. These two therapies alone and in combination with other medicines are demonstrating extremely strong activity in a broad range of cancers, giving us the ability to create a leadership position in the hematological oncology market, a $30 billion market today, expected to grow to $50 billion by 2020 and $65 billion by 2025. Given our portfolio, we're well positioned to drive the continued evolution of the treatment landscape, establishing BTK and BcL-2 inhibition as foundational therapies in CLL and other hematological malignancies. Our goal is to transform the therapeutic approach, allowing patients to achieve more durable, deeper responses. Through novel combinations of IMBRUVICA, VENCLEXTA, and other therapies, we'll drive better long-term control of blood cancers. The growing body of data for both therapies in CLL and in other hematological malignancies will support label expansion, thereby driving increasing penetration and growth in the coming years. Our confidence in our ability to achieve and sustain a strong leadership position within this market stems from the truly impressive data we've seen from both of these assets. IMBRUVICA has changed the treatment paradigm in second-line and greater CLL and in patients with the 17p deletion and is gaining strong momentum in first-line CLL by providing strong durable response and a superior survival benefit over standard of care. We're expanding IMBRUVICA's use in multiple segments of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma beyond the already approved indications and exploring potential in additional diseases. We continue to expect sales of IMBRUVICA of greater than $7 billion to AbbVie. We've also seen outstanding results from VENCLEXTA's clinical program, which has shown high response rates in difficult-to-treat patient populations, including relapsed/refractory CLL patients with a 17p deletion and CLL patients who have failed prior therapy with a B-cell receptor inhibitor. We recently reported strong positive top line results from the Phase III MURANO study in relapsed/refractory CLL, where combination treatment with VENCLEXTA and RITUXAN prolonged progression-free survival versus BR. Based on the positive results, an independent data monitoring committee has made the recommendation to unblind the trial. Analysis of the data showed that the combination treatment with VENCLEXTA and RITUXAN may offer another strong option for patients with relapsed/refractory CLL. We plan to submit our regulatory application in the coming months, and we look forward to bringing this potential new treatment to the market in the broader relapsed/refractory CLL population. We also had development programs for VENCLEXTA in AML, multiple myeloma, and other blood cancers, where we've seen promising results, including strong data supporting two Breakthrough Therapy designations in AML. These indications have the potential to start adding significant value in the three- to five-year time horizon. We believe that VENCLEXTA's nominal sales potential in 2025 across multiple hematological malignancies is approximately $6 billion. Another strategic priority for AbbVie is establishing a strong foundation in solid tumors. We've made significant investments, both internally and externally, in groundbreaking technology and platforms, and we've partnered with leaders across the field to identify and advance promising therapies to address the significant unmet need that continues to exist in this area. We've made tremendous progress over the past several years. We currently have more than 20 solid tumor assets in clinical development, many demonstrating early signs of efficacy, and expect to advance at least 10 additional assets into human trials over the next year. One of our strategic investments was the acquisition of Stemcentrx, which provided AbbVie a late-stage asset in Rova-T as well as a highly attractive discovery and early development platform. Rova-T represents a multibillion-dollar peak revenue opportunity as we advance into first-line small-cell lung cancer and other indications. As Mike mentioned, in the second quarter next year, we'll see results from the TRINITY study in third-line small-cell lung cancer, and we plan to submit our regulatory application for this indication soon thereafter. Small-cell lung cancer is a devastating disease. And in the setting where Rova-T will initially be approved, third-line-plus, patients have extremely poor prognosis. There are currently no approved treatments, and the five-year survival is approximately 6%. There has been progress in the field with promising data from both Rova-T and I-O therapy. Recent data showed objective responses in I-O monotherapy in second- and third-line patients at 11% and I-O/I-O combinations at 22%. This level of response is a meaningful improvement over the mid-single-digit response rates experts estimate are typical in the real-world setting. Ultimately, we believe a combination of Rova-T and I-O therapy could demonstrate higher levels of efficacy, and we have ongoing collaborations to evaluate this approach with initial data expected next year. Additionally, we have ongoing studies in the front-line and second-line settings. And in parallel, we're advancing studies to validate Rova-T's activity in a number of other solid tumors. The expression of DLL3 in metastatic melanoma, glioblastoma, and some prostate, pancreatic, and colorectal tumors suggests that Rova-T may be useful in these tumor types. Beyond Rova-T, the acquisition of Stemcentrx also brought with it a pipeline of additional clinical development programs, including seven additional novel compounds which are currently in human trials, covering solid tumors from small-cell lung cancer to ovarian cancer and colorectal cancer, among others. Going forward, we're on track to advance roughly three novel assets from Stemcentrx to enter human trials each year. In our early-stage oncology pipeline, we're continuing to explore new technologies that will extend our reach in the solid tumor market. For example, our next-generation immuno-oncology programs are designed to broaden and deepen responses beyond what we've seen with the first wave of I-O therapies. We're using novel approaches, including bi-specific technology to elicit T-cell activation in close proximity to tumor cells. Over the past year, four next-generation immuno-oncology assets have entered the clinic, and we look forward to data from these studies over the next several years. As evidenced by our on-market presence, our late-stage pipeline, and our early discovery and development work, clearly we have a major strategic commitment to oncology. Oncology will be a major growth driver for AbbVie over the next 10 years and beyond, further diversifying our business. In addition to AbbVie's efforts in immunology and oncology, our strategy includes investments and development activity in other attractive high-growth markets such as women's health, neuroscience, and virology. In women's health, elagolix represents a potential new medicine and advancement for women suffering from endometriosis and uterine fibroids, both highly prevalent conditions with limited treatment options. There are millions of women unsatisfied with their treatment and cycling through oral contraceptives and pain medications. These women are dealing with significant levels of chronic pain. We believe elagolix represents a significant advancement for this large underserved population and represents a multibillion-dollar opportunity for AbbVie. Neuroscience is an emerging area of focus for AbbVie, and we are investing internally and externally to develop disease-modifying therapies to treat neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and multiple sclerosis. We're currently evaluating mechanisms like and anti-tau and RGMa, which have the potential to translate to disease modification in degenerative neurological conditions, including Alzheimer's, MS, and spinal cord injury. In virology, we recently launched MAVYRET, our next-generation HCV treatment, a pan-genotypic, once-daily, ribavirin-free therapy that has SVR rates approaching 100% across genotypes with eight weeks of therapy for the majority of patients. While it's still early, the global launch is progressing extremely well, with positive feedback from physicians, patients, and payers on its strong clinical profile and our go-to-market strategy, confirming our expectation that MAVYRET is a highly competitive product within this market. Just nine weeks after the launch, MAVYRET has achieved a market share position in the U.S. of over 15%, predominantly driven by the public channel. Internationally, we've seen strong uptake in markets where we've launched, including Germany, which achieved a market leadership position with 40% market share 10 weeks after its launch. We view MAVYRET as a significant revenue opportunity over the long-range plan, with meaningful sales contributions beginning in 2018. Clearly, we have one of the most impressive R&D pipelines in our industry, and we look forward to the evolution of our pipeline assets, from promising late-stage development compounds to high-growth marketed products in these areas of high unmet need. The combination of our own market products and our promising late-stage assets should produce robust growth for our business over the long term. AbbVie represents a unique and attractive investment, offering both industry-leading growth and strong shareholder returns. There are two components of our company, our HUMIRA business and our growth platform, both of which provide a compelling growth story and high shareholder value. HUMIRA will remain the cornerstone of our industry-leading immunology franchise. We have a high degree of confidence in our ability to deliver continued strong HUMIRA performance. And as I mentioned, we now expect HUMIRA sales to approach $21 billion in 2020. Following the entry of direct biosimilar competition in the U.S., we expect that HUMIRA will maintain a strong market position with a manageable erosion curve. HUMIRA will generate robust durable cash flow through 2025 and beyond. These cash flows will fund our pipeline and fuel our ability to continue to provide an attractive return of capital to our shareholders through a strong and growing dividend and share repurchase. Beyond HUMIRA, AbbVie has a stable base business and a highly attractive pipeline, which represents a significant underappreciated growth platform for AbbVie. Our non-HUMIRA business, which today has sales of approximately $9.6 billion, is expected to grow to more than $35 billion in 2025, reflecting a compound annual growth rate of almost 18%. This growth trajectory reflects the strength of our derisked late-stage pipeline, including over 20 new product or indication launches by 2020, supporting our ability to sustain top-tier revenue growth despite the entry of direct biosimilar competition. Based on consensus estimates, AbbVie's top and bottom line growth over the next five years is projected to be in the top quartile of our peer group, while our P/E multiple currently ranks in the lower third of our industry. So despite our recent strong stock performance, our P/E multiple still has significant room for expansion to be valued consistent with our top-tier biotech peers, offering the potential for strong shareholder returns. Our objective when we launched AbbVie was to build a high-performing biopharmaceutical company that was capable of delivering long-term top-tier performance. We are a company and a management team that has consistently achieved our objectives, and we have met or exceeded our commitments to our investors. We're proud of our performance and our proven track record of execution, and we're certainly excited about AbbVie's prospects going forward. We look forward to engaging with the investment community in the coming weeks as we meet with investors and share our strategic vision for the company. We have a high degree of confidence in our ability to continue to successfully execute on our long-term strategy and deliver outstanding shareholder value.

Inc.: Okay, so this is Mike. With respect to the RA studies for upadacitinib and what will support an NDA next year, as you mentioned, we have six studies, and those cover a range of patients from methotrexate inadequate responders to biologic inadequate responders. They include active comparator studies and studies aimed to look at structural endpoints. And so we will file with at least five studies of the six. We've always considered five studies our core. There was a sixth study, which is a structural study, which was originally anticipated to take longer than the others, but it is moving forward ahead of schedule. So it's possible that that could actually come in at a time that it can be included, but we're going to continue to evaluate that, but it would either be five or six studies that we would include.

C: Thank you very much and thanks for all the background color, first question for Mike. Mike, you've talked about upadacitinib in your observations. But could you just give us a sense of – we can't help this question of the BTE rate given what's happened with other programs. So could you give us a sense of the total clinical experience in RA and the number of observed events so far in the RA studies? I know that the studies are still blinded or some of them are, but it will be helpful to know where you stand. And then could you just comment on whether you're seeing any platelet increases or decreases? And then on a related note, I'm struck by the timing of the launches of upadacitinib and risankizumab in ulcerative colitis and Crohn's, which are out in 2022 and 2023. Is there a bottleneck in study sites or in patient recruitment? Because it just seems a long time to have to wait for those programs in IBD to mature. If you could, help us understand that.

Inc.: Certainly. So with respect to rates across the program, I think the best answer that I can give you is the answer that I gave you in my prepared remarks, which is that we monitor the program in aggregate across all of the studies. And of course, we're still blinded on the majority of the studies and therefore the majority of our database. And when we look at that and when we look at those rates, those rates are consistent with the background rate that we've stated on a number of occasions. We're going to continue to monitor carefully, but we do not see that situation change. I'll also refer to the remarks I made about our DMC. We are firewalled from our DMC by design, but our DMC has access to all of the data, including the unblinded data, and they have consistently recommended that we continue the program without any modifications. And if they had concerns, you certainly wouldn't expect that to have been their course of action. With respect to platelet changes, we've looked at it. We've not seen any changes with platelets. Platelets remain stable on therapy. And I think platelets don't seem to be playing any part of the picture for upadacitinib. In terms of launches in UC and Crohn's, it's early on in those programs. So we're always going to try to move as quickly as we can and advance programs rapidly, but we're not seeing any bottlenecks in sites. We're not seeing any bottlenecks in patients. In fact, recruitment across the program has gone very well, I think indicative of strong investigator and patient interest in the upadacitinib program broadly.

C: Great, thanks so much for taking my questions and also for all the details today. So a couple thoughts around the long-term plan and just maybe some updates to your thoughts when you made the plan in 2015 and the update today. So specifically around HUMIRA, and if you can, just what your assumptions are on pricing growth in the U.S. for that product between now and 2020, what's baked into that $21 billion number? Second, HUMIRA in terms of the EU biosimilar impact, obviously it still looks like it's end of next year. Just what your thoughts are, we have a little more experience now with biosimilars, in fact, than when we did two years ago, so what you guys are assuming the impact will be on HUMIRA in Europe starting I guess in 2019? And then finally, just around once we do see U.S. biosimilar direct competition, it sounds like in January 2023, is there any change to your outlook on the rate of erosion at that point, maybe just with some of the changing pricing dynamics or payer dynamics in this country, or do you feel pretty much the same about the erosion curve after 2023?

Inc.: Thank you, Rick. Today I'll highlight recent pipeline updates and discuss key milestones we anticipate for the remainder of 2018. I'll start with our immunology programs, where we are nearing completion of the registrational programs for our two late-stage assets, upadacitinib and risankizumab, in their initial indications of RA and psoriasis respectively. Based on the data we've generated to date, each of these assets has the potential to significantly advance standard of care in a number of immune-mediated conditions. Earlier this month we reported top line results from the SELECT-COMPARE study, which evaluated upadacitinib against both placebo and HUMIRA in patients who did not adequately respond to methotrexate. This was the fourth study in the SELECT clinical program, and the results showed a significant impact on both signs and symptoms and radiographic progression compared to placebo as well as improvements in important measures, such as ACR response and low disease activity compared to HUMIRA. Given its strong profile, upadacitinib has the potential to be a best-in-class therapy in RA and could offer meaningful advantages over products on the market today or in development. We are also obviously aware of the recent FDA Advisory Committee meeting on baricitinib. In our view, the primary safety considerations for bari relating to DVT and PE are the presence of an imbalance of thrombotic events in the controlled portions of their trials, challenges to finding the benefit/risk profile of the lower dose, and potentially concern over sustained increases in platelets in comparison to baseline. When we look at the upadacitinib program, we remain confident in our safety profile, both overall and with respect to DVT and PE rates. Today we have unblinded results from four of the five pivotal studies that will support our global registration. When we look across the controlled periods of these four studies, we have reported five patients with events of DVT or PE in the upadacitinib groups, as compared to four patients with these events in the comparator groups. Thus, we see very similar numbers of events despite the fact that more patients received upadacitinib than comparator in these studies. Therefore, we do not see an imbalance in these data. Second, we have designed and conducted a program that will characterize the benefit/risk profile of both doses of upadacitinib independently. Notably, our lower dose was included in all pivotal studies and important parts of our program, such as our head-to-head data against HUMIRA, and our structural data were performed at the lower dose. Third, with respect to platelets, the pattern we observed with upadacitinib in our Phase 3 studies is a modest decrease in platelets by week four, which returns towards baseline over time. We expect to see data from the final study in our registrational program, the SELECT-EARLY trial, in the coming months, with our regulatory submission following in the second half of the year. Moving now to our other late-stage immunology asset, risankizumab, we've completed the registrational program for the psoriasis indication, and just yesterday announced that we have submitted our BLA in the U.S. The European submission is anticipated very shortly. In all four Phase 3 studies in the pivotal program risankizumab consistently showed very high and durable rates of skin clearance. Based on these results, we believe risankizumab has the potential to significantly improve upon current treatment options for both bio-naive and TNF-inadequate responder populations with moderate to severe psoriasis while offering the convenience of quarterly dosing. We continue to make good progress with the development programs for both upadacitinib and risankizumab in several other immune-mediated conditions, including Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, psoriatic arthritis, and atopic dermatitis. Phase 3 studies are underway for several of these indications, and we plan to start registrational programs for the remaining indications over the course of the next year. We look forward to providing updates on these programs as the data mature. Moving now to oncology, where we continue to advance our programs for IMBRUVICA and Venclexta, we've seen very strong activity across a broad range of hematologic malignancies with these two therapies, demonstrating their potential to transform treatment by driving better long-term disease control and better outcome for patients. With IMBRUVICA, we continue to build the body of evidence in CLL as well as in other blood cancers. We have several studies ongoing to evaluate IMBRUVICA alone and as a combination therapy in different patient segments, including young and fit patients and the watch-and-wait population. These studies will add to the breadth of data supporting IMBRUVICA, providing physicians more evidence of the compelling clinical benefits in the front-line setting. We expect to begin seeing data from these Phase 3 trials next year. Moving now to Venclexta, which is currently under Priority Review with the FDA for use in relapsed refractory CLL in combination with Rituxan, we continue to expect a midyear approval for this broader relapsed refractory CLL population, moving us further towards our goal of establishing Venclexta as a foundational chemotherapy-free option in the CLL market. Beyond our core strategy in CLL, we are making great progress with our development programs to expand Venclexta across other hematologic malignancies such as AML and multiple myeloma. We remain on track to submit our U.S. regulatory application for Venclexta in AML later this summer. And we look forward to bringing this new treatment option to the substantial group of previously untreated AML patients who can't receive high-dose induction chemotherapy. This submission is based on the substantial activity we've seen with Venclexta in our mid-stage studies and represents a significant acceleration of our AML program. The Phase 3 studies in AML are ongoing, with data readouts expected next year. The Phase 3 program in multiple myeloma is also progressing well, with key data becoming available in the first half of 2019. I'll now turn to our solid tumor programs, where, despite some disappointing news in the quarter that we won't be seeking accelerated approval for Rova-T in third-line or greater small-cell lung cancer, we're making continued progress with Rova-T in earlier lines of therapy as well as with our early-stage solid tumor programs. In March, we announced top line results from the TRINITY study in third-line small-cell lung cancer. While Rova-T demonstrated single-agent responses in these advanced patients, after consulting with the FDA, we made the decision not to seek accelerated approval based on this single-arm study. Although the results from the TRINITY study were not what we had hoped for, we believe that in earlier lines of therapy and in combination with other agents, Rova-T has the potential to provide important clinical benefit. And we look forward to data from the ongoing and MERU and TAHOE trials in first and second-line small-cell lung cancer. The MERU and TAHOE studies are expected to read out in the 2020 timeframe and should provide definitive evidence of Rova-T's potential as an important treatment option for small-cell lung cancer patients. And finally, in the area of women's health, our regulatory application for elagolix in endometriosis is currently under review. We recently announced that the FDA has extended the review time by three months after requesting additional information regarding the results of liver function testing from the clinical program. We have submitted our response to the agency. And, based on our review of the data, we remain confident in our application, and we look forward to approval in the third quarter. In addition to the endometriosis program, we continue to make good progress with our pivotal program evaluating elagolix in combination with low-dose hormone add-back therapy in women with uterine fibroids. In the first quarter, we announced positive top line results from both Phase 3 uterine fibroid studies, where elagolix in combination with low-dose add-back therapy met the primary and all ranked secondary endpoints in both studies. Data from both pivotal studies as well as data from the six-month extensions will support our regulatory submission for elagolix in this indication in 2019. So in summary, we have continued to make significant progress with our pipeline, and we look forward to many more important data readouts, regulatory submissions, and approvals throughout the remainder of the year. With that, I'll turn the call over to Bill for additional comments on our first quarter performance.

Inc.: Thanks, Mike. As Rick said, we delivered another quarter of outstanding performance with strong top and bottom line growth. Total net revenues for the first quarter were $7.9 billion, up 17.6% operationally, excluding the impact of foreign exchange. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $1.87, up 46.1% compared to the first quarter of 2017 and exceeding our guidance for the quarter. HUMIRA global sales were $4.7 billion, up 10.7% operationally. In the U.S., HUMIRA sales increased 11.4% compared to the prior year, with prescription volume growth of 9% and price in the mid-single digits. Growth in the quarter was impacted by retail inventory destocking at a large specialty pharmacy. Excluding the impact of this destocking, HUMIRA sales growth in the U.S. would have been over 13%. Wholesaler inventory levels were below half a month in all quarters. International HUMIRA sales were $1.7 billion in the quarter, up 9.3% on an operational basis or 20% including the impact of foreign exchange. The quarter's performance benefited to a degree from shipment timing. Excluding this impact, operating performance was over 7%. Despite increasing competition, HUMIRA has maintained its strong position as the leading front-line therapy across all approved indications, demonstrating its unique product profile and strong physician preference. Global IMBRUVICA net revenues in the first quarter were $762 million, up 38.5% year over year, with continued strong uptake in CLL as well as other approved indications. Global HCV sales in the first quarter were $919 million, with MAVYRET sales of approximately $850 million. As Rick mentioned, we've been extremely pleased with the launch of MAVYRET in the U.S. and international markets. In the U.S., penetration of the commercial markets has exceeded our initial expectations, with formulary access across roughly 75% of covered lives and more rapid share gains than we originally anticipated. In the first quarter, we saw an increase in global patient volume, driven primarily by the treatment of warehoused DAA failure patients in Japan and a slightly higher level of treated patients in the U.S. relative to volume in the back half of 2017. Global sales of Duodopa, our therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease, grew 16.5% operationally, and we also saw strong growth with Creon and Lupron. Turning now to the P&L profile for the first quarter, adjusted gross margin was 80.2% of sales compared to 79.9% in the prior year. This was inclusive of the year-over-year negative impact of partnership accounting and an additional negative impact of exchange due to the strengthening of hedged currencies. Adjusted R&D was 15% of sales in the quarter, supporting our ongoing pipeline programs in oncology, immunology, and other areas. Adjusted SG&A was 21% of sales in the quarter, an increase of 20 basis points versus the prior year, reflecting continued investment in our unmarketed products as well as investment in advance of several upcoming product launches. The adjusted operating margin was 44.1% of sales in the first quarter, an improvement of 200 basis points versus the prior year. Net interest expense was $251 million in the first quarter. The adjusted tax rate was 7.6% in the quarter, with the rate benefiting from the timing of compensation programs. First quarter adjusted EPS excluding specified items was $1.87, up 46.1% year over year. As mentioned earlier this morning, based on our strong outperformance year to date as well as our outlook for the remainder of the year, we are raising our full-year adjusted earnings per share guidance to between $7.66 and $7.76. At the midpoint, this new guidance range is $0.33 higher than our prior guidance, with more than half of the increase from stronger operating performance. Our revised midpoint represents annual growth of 38% versus 2017. This revised guidance contemplates revenue approaching $32.6 billion and reflects a favorable foreign currency benefit of approximately 2%. Included in this guidance are the following assumptions for our key products. We expect U.S. sales of HUMIRA of approximately $13.7 billion. We continue to see robust prescription growth and maintain a strong leadership position across all segments. This guidance reflects the retail specialty pharmacy destocking that we are seeing in the market as well as a moderately more conservative stance on co-pay costs associated with cost accumulator programs in certain high-deductible commercial plans. While these programs have not materially impacted the first quarter performance, we continue to monitor them closely in order to minimize any impact on patient access. At current exchange rates, we expect international HUMIRA sales to approach $6.4 billion this year. This guidance assumes operational growth roughly in line with our prior expectations and is inclusive of the impact of direct biosimilar entrants in the fourth quarter of 2018. For IMBRUVICA, we continue to expect global revenues to AbbVie of greater than $3.3 billion, with U.S. sales just above $2.7 billion. And we are now forecasting global HCV sales in 2018 to be approximately $3.5 billion. Turning now to the P&L for 2018, as Rick noted during his remarks, with the passage of tax reform, we will be making further investments to support long-term growth. In 2018, we are forecasting SG&A approaching 20.5% of sales, reflecting investments to maximize the potential of assets launching in 2018 and 2019. We currently expect full-year R&D expense of just above 16% of our revised sales projection. We are forecasting operating margin above 43.5% of sales, more than 100 basis points above 2017, inclusive of the incremental investments in support of our upcoming product launches and an expected negative impact from currency. We now expect net interest expense of approximately $1.1 billion, inclusive of the financing impact of the announced share repurchase activities. And we are forecasting an adjusted tax rate approaching 9%. As we look ahead to the second quarter, we expect adjusted earnings per share between $1.94 and $1.96. Our second quarter adjusted EPS guidance excludes roughly $0.34 of non-cash amortization, impact from tax reform, and other specified items. We are forecasting operational revenue growth in the second quarter of approximately 15%. Holding exchange rates constant at current levels, we would expect foreign exchange to have a favorable impact to sales growth of approximately 3% in the second quarter. For U.S. HUMIRA, we expect sales growth in the second quarter approaching 10%. Internationally, we expect HUMIRA sales approaching $1.6 billion, assuming current exchange rates. For IMBRUVICA, we expect U.S. sales approaching $700 million. And for HCV, we expect global sales of approximately $950 million, with approximately 40% of those sales coming from U.S. sales. With respect to the non-GAAP tax rate, the second quarter should be modeled in line with our annual guidance approaching 9%. In summary, we are very pleased with AbbVie's performance in the quarter, with results well ahead of our expectations. We have driven industry-leading revenue and EPS growth and are well positioned to continue to advance our strategic priorities.

C: Thank you. Rick, I just have a couple questions. The first is I think that certainly some of us were surprised by the magnitude of the market share loss following the disappointing news around TRINITY. I think you lost about $30 billion in market cap. And given the small amount of revenues that we had in our models, that seemed like an overreaction. But maybe not, the market is smarter than we are. But I'm just wondering. As you were weighing the pros and cons of a Dutch auction or utilizing that authorized $10 billion buyback versus maybe making the decision to redeploy that cash into bolt-on deals, can you just talk about how you arrived at your decision to buy back stock instead of going out and buying assets? I think some investors saw the news as yes, this is bad news, but I think it also opened up questions that investors have had for so many years again about the durability of HUMIRA, the value of the pipeline, et cetera, et cetera. So if you could, talk about that. And then, Mike, just to follow up, that was a really good explanation about upadacitinib and the trials that you've reported to date. But I'm just curious why you haven't disclosed the DVT/PE rates. You gave us the absolute number, but the actual rates. And any clarity on Grade 2/3/4 hemoglobin decrease versus placebo, given we saw a dose response and placebo imbalance in your

C: Great. Thanks very much for the questions. My first question was just on HUMIRA ex-U.S. and specifically Europe. Can you just talk through a little bit of your expectations on qualitatively quarterly progression of that franchise from here as we think about the biosimilar entry later this year? And maybe as part of that, can you just talk a little bit about what you're doing ahead of biosimilar entry to defend the franchise, and should that – you kind of impact results at all as we think about the coming quarters? My second question was a Rova-T question and just on this dynamic around seeing additional data, not just single-agent but combination. When can we think about getting more robust combination data with Rova-T specifically with some of the PD-1s? Is that something we could see this year, or is that something that's more of a 2019 or 2020 event?

Inc.: Chris, this is Rick. I'll cover the HUMIRA question and Mike will cover the Rova-T question. So as we indicated in the last call, we have started our preparation activities for biosimilars outside the U.S. in those countries that are going to face biosimilar activity in the fourth quarter of this year. So we have implemented – started the process of implementing our defense strategy. I would say that is going as we would have expected. It's going well thus far, and we're preparing for what will ultimately be the impact that we see in the fourth quarter. We obviously saw robust growth in the first quarter. Bill may be able to talk to that. There was some timing that was in – timing of some shipments within that quarter. Bill, do you want to touch on that?

Inc.: Yeah, it was about 2 points of the overall. So if you back that out, the operational growth in the first quarter was 7%, which was still strong. Q2 we would expect a lower growth rate given the reversal of that timing. I think in the 3% to 4% range would be a good number to bank on at this point.

Severino: Thank you Rick. When we launched AbbVie our strategy was to build an industry leading pipeline and a robust R&D engine capable of driving significant and sustainable growth. We’ve made tremendous progress over the past few years and we’re now entering a period where a large number of assets have either already transitioned to commercialization or are preparing to do so. Our R&D engine has been very productive over the past two years. Specifically we’ve received a number of major regulatory approvals including VENCLEXTA and Relapsed/Refractory CLL. IMBRUVICA in Marginal Zone Lymphoma and graft versus host disease. MAVYRET and HVC and ORILISSA and Endometriosis. We’ve reported positive data from nearly a dozen key registration enabling clinical programs including Upadacitinib in RA. Risankizumab in psoriasis. VENCLEXTA in Relapsed/Refractory CLL and AML. IMBRUVICA in frontline CLL and elagolix in Endometriosis and uterine fibroids to name a few. We’ve been very pleased with the data generated across these programs. As each asset has proven to be differentiated relative to the current standard of care. We’ve also seen promising proof of concept data from numerous mid stage programs which we’ve advanced into registrational studies. These includes Upadacitinib in Crohn’s Disease, psoriatic arthritis and atopic dermatitis. Risankizumab in Crohn’s Disease and VENCLEXTA in multiple myeloma and mantle cell lymphoma. The data we’ve produced and the regulatory success we’ve to-date, reinforce our view that the assets we’re developing will achieve strong competitive positions within their respective markets. And we’ve also continued the significant progress in the recent quarter, which I’ll now spend a few moments highlighting. In immunology, we’ve made significant progress with Upadacitinib and Risankizumab, our two late stage assets with best in class potential across a broad range of indications. In the quarter, we reported top line results from the select early study which evaluated Upadacitinib, our JAK1 selective inhibitor as a monotherapy treatment compared to methotrexate in methotrexate-naive patients. Similar to the efficacy observed in the previous four SELECT studies in its fifth and final registration trial. Upadacitinib drove very high levels of response on all clinical endpoints and importantly, on the more stringent endpoint such as ACR50, ACR70 low disease activity and DAS remission. In the study both the lower and higher doses of Upadacitinib met the primary and all ranked secondary endpoints at weeks 12 and 24. Both doses also significantly inhibited radiographic progression at week 24 compared to methotrexate. These results support the potential of Upadacitinib as first line monotherapy in methotrexate-naïve RA patients. We’ve evaluated Upadacitinib in a comprehensive set of studies in patients with moderate-to-severe RA. This includes head-to-head study against HUMIRA, the currents standard of care and additional studies conducted in a broad range of clinical settings including patients who are naïve to methotrexate therapy at one end of the spectrum and very difficult to treat patients who have failed one or more biologic therapies at the other end. Based on the data generated in our program, we remain very confident in the benefit risk profile of Upadacitinib and believe that it will offer meaningful advantages over products on the market today or in development. Following the successful completion of our fifth and final study, we remain on track to submit our regulatory application in the fourth quarter of this year. Moving now to our other late stage immunology asset; Risankizumab. We recently submitted our US and European regulatory applications in psoriasis. Based on the very high and durable rates of skin clearance we saw in the registrational studies. We believe Risankizumab has the potential to significantly improve upon current treatment options for both bio-naïve and TNF inadequate responder patients with moderate-to-severe psoriasis, while offering the convenience of quarterly dosing. Moving now to oncology, where we continue to advance our programs for VENCLEXTA and IMBRUVICA. We’ve seen very strong activity across a broad range of hematologic malignancies with these two therapies. Demonstrating their potential to transform treatment by driving better long-term disease control and better outcomes for patients. In June, we received FDA approval for VENCLEXTA in combination with rituximab in patients with Relapsed/Refractory CLL. Substantially expanding the patient population for which VENCLEXTA is approved. This approval is based on the Phase 3 MURANO study, where combination treatment with VENCLEXTA and rituximab showed a profound improvement in progression free survival. This combination also showed high and durable rates of MRD negative response compared to BR. A measure that is predictive of improved clinical outcomes in patients with CLL. VENCLEXTA plus rituximab combination therapy has the potential to be a new standard chemotherapy free treatment option and we’re excited to bring this new therapy to the broader Relapsed/Refractory CLL population. In the quarter, we also submitted our US regulatory application for VENCLEXTA as a treatment for first line AML patients who can’t receive high dose induction chemotherapy. AML is one of the most aggressive hematologic malignancies with a very low survival rate and few options available for patients who can’t receive intensive chemotherapy. VENCLEXTA has demonstrated rapid, deep and durable responses in these patients. Based on the Phase 2 data recently presented at EHA, we’re seeing response rates in excess of 70% with VENCLEXTA in combination with hypomethylating agents which represents a meaningful improvement relative to the current standard of care, where response rates range from 10% to 30%. We believe this could be an important new treatment option for the substantial group of patients which represents roughly 50% of the frontline AML market. We expect to see data from several other important VENCLEXTA studies over the next 12 months, this includes data from the Phase 3 CLL 14 study and frontline CLL later this year and the Phase 3 BELLINI study and multiple myeloma in the first half of 2019. Turning now to IMBRUVICA, during the quarter we reported data from two important trials that expand and strengthen our data set in CLL. The iLLUMINATE and CAPTIVATE studies. Results from the Phase 3 iLLUMINATE study which evaluated IMBRUVICA in combination with Gazyva in frontline CLL showed a significant improvement in progression free survival in patients treated with IMBRUVICA plus Gazyva compared to patients treated with the combination of Gazyva and Chlorambucil. A regimen which is currently recommended as a Category 1 treatment within the NCCN guidelines. We also recently presented data from the Phase 2 CAPTIVATE study evaluating IMBRUVICA in combination with VENCLEXTA in frontline CLL. We are very encouraged by the early results of this study where approximately 90% of patients achieved responses with no detectable minimal residual disease following 12 cycles of therapy. Illustrating the potential benefit of combining these two agents to deliver deep responses in CLL. iLLUMINATE and CAPTIVATE are just two of several ongoing studies evaluating IMBRUVICA alone and as a combination therapy versus regimen such as GC, BR and FCR often considered the standards of care in the treatment of CLL. Over the course of the next few years, there will be additional data readouts for IMBRUVICA in the frontline CLL setting that we believe will help drive further penetration. Finally, in the area of women’s health as previously noted we recently announced the FDA approval of ORILISSA for the management of moderate-to-severe pain associated with Endometriosis. ORILISSA is the first and only oral GnRH antagonists approved for women with this condition and the first oral treatment for these patients in over a decade. We also continue to make good progress with our pivotal program evaluating elagolix in combination with low dose hormone add-back therapy in women with uterine fibroids. Detailed data from our pivotal trials in this indication will be presented at a medical meeting later this year and will support our regulatory submission in 2019. So in summary, we’ve had several important data readouts, regulatory submissions and approvals in the first half of the year and we look forward to updating you on our pipeline as it continues to progress. With that, I’ll turn the call over to

Chase: Thanks Mike. As Rick mentioned we’re very pleased with our outstanding second quarter performance. Our year-to-date underlying business fundamentals remain strong and we’ve entered the second half of significant momentum. Total adjusted net revenues for the second quarter were $8.3 billion up 17.1% operationally excluding the impact of foreign exchange. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $2 up 40.8% compared to the second quarter of 2017 and exceeding our guidance range for the quarter. HUMIRA global sales were $5.2 billion up 8.2% operationally. In the US, HUMIRA sales increased 10% compared to the prior year with high single-digit prescription volume growth and roughly 3% favorable price. Wholesaler inventory levels remains below half month in the quarter. International HUMIRA sales were more than $1.6 billion up 4.4% on an operational basis. We continue to see very good growth through the first half of 2018 despite increasing competition. With its unique product profile years of physician experience and broad set of indications HUMIRA remains the leading global frontline therapy across all approved indications. Global IMBRUVICA net revenues were $850 million up 35.6% year-over-year with continued strong uptake in CLL as well as other approved indications. Global HCV sales were $973 million with MAVYRET sales of $932 million. The pace of MAVYRET’s uptake continues to exceed expectations driven by strong market share performance globally as well as higher treatment volumes from warehoused DAA failure patients in certain markets. Global sales of Duodopa, a therapy for advanced Parkinson’s disease, grew 25.1% on an operational basis in the quarter, and we also saw strong operational sales growth from Creon which was up 11.4%. Turning now to the P&L profile for the second quarter, adjusted gross margin was 80.5% of sales compared to 82.3% in the prior year. The decrease versus prior year reflects the year-over-year dilutive impact of partnership accounting as well as exchanged impacts of hedged currencies. Adjusted R&D was 15.3% of sales in the quarter, supporting pipeline programs in oncology, immunology as well as other areas. Adjusted SG&A was 19.9% of sales in the quarter, a decrease of 40 basis points versus the prior year, reflecting sales leverage and operational efficiencies. The adjusted operating margin was 45.3% in the second quarter an improvement of 90 basis points versus the prior year. Net interest expense was $272 million in the quarter and the adjusted tax rate was 9%. As Rick mentioned based on our performance year-to-date and our outlook for the remaining two quarters. We’re raising our full year adjusted earnings per share guidance range to $7.76 to $7.86 representing growth of 39.5% at the midpoint. This guidance assumes revenue approaching $32.5 billion inclusive of recent negative currency dynamics. This forecast comprehends full year operational performance approaching 14.5% up 1% from prior guidance. At current rates we now expect a foreign currency benefit of less than 1% for the full year sales. This forecast includes the following updated assumptions for our key products. Despite less favorable exchange at current rates we continue to expect international HUMIRA sales to approach $6.4 billion this year. For IMBRUVICA, we now expect global revenues to AbbVie approaching $3.4 billion with US sales approaching $2.8 billion. Given the momentum and performance in HCV, we’re raising our forecast and now expect global sales above $3.5 billion. For ORILISSA, due to the timing of the launch we expect full year sales of less than $50 million in 2018 as we continue to create awareness and build the market for this important new treatment option. Turning to the P&L for 2018, we now expecting adjusted gross margin ratio of above 80.5% which includes exchange impacts from weaker hedged currencies. We are now forecasting SG&A of approximately 20.5% of sales reflecting investments to maximize the potential of assets launching in both 2018 and 2019. We expect full year R&D expense approaching 16%. And we’re now expecting adjusted operating margin above 44% roughly 150 basis points above prior year. All other full year guidance assumptions remains unchanged. As we look ahead into the third quarter, we expect adjusted earnings per share between $2 and $2.02. Our third quarter adjusted EPS guidance excludes roughly $0.23 of non-cash amortization and other specified items. We’re forecasting operational revenue growth in the third quarter of approximately 17%. Holding exchange rates constant at current levels, we would expect foreign exchange to have an unfavorable impact on sales growth of approximately 1% in the third quarter. For US HUMIRA, we expect sales growth in the third quarter of approximately 11%. We expect international HUMIRA sales approaching $1.6 billion assuming current exchange rates. For IMBRUVICA we expect US sales approaching $725 million and for HCV, we expect global sales of approximately $850 million. Lastly, we expect the adjusted tax rate to be approximately 9%. In summary, we are very pleased with our performance this quarter as we’ve driven strong revenue and EPS growth again while continuing to advance our strategic priorities. We expect this momentum to continue in the second half of 2018 putting us in a strong position to deliver top tier industry growth once again this year and with that, I’ll turn the call back over to

Shea: Thanks Bill. We’ll now open the call for questions. Operator, we’ll take the first question please.

Gonzalez: Okay, Chris. This is Rick. I’ll take those two. So I think as we think about the blueprint that has come out from the administration. I’m saying in our view we believe it’s an important step to address probably one of the biggest challenges that we face both as a nation as well as an industry and that is the significant burden out of pocket cost for seniors in Medicare around co-pay and the donut hole. I mean that’s a significant challenge and I think it’s something that we have to be able to wrestle to the ground. I would say we’re very supportive of the idea, of changing a structure where the net price how the co-pay where paid against. I think that’s a fair and very reasonable thing to ultimately implement. And I’d also say, that if you look at the blueprint it’s probably the most comprehensive look that we’ve seen in a very, very long time at the system and looking at ways to ultimately improve the system overall. So we’re encouraged to continue to work with industry to provide feedback and to provide feedback directly around the blueprint, we’d be interested in making sure that we come forward with solutions that will work. Now it’s little early in the process, so there’s not a lot of specificity yet on what some of those changes are, so it’s a little difficult to look at it yet and determine in tax on the business or any of those kind of things, but I’d say generally speaking when we look to the framework. At least for AbbVie’s business it was, there were probably more positives than there were negatives based on the kinds of products that we have. As it relates to rebates, I know there is a lot of debate on rebates and I think it is important for people to understand. I think some of the facts around rebates. When we do rebates the same as you view a discount. Okay, so from our perspective they are one and the same. Essentially we provide a rebate to a managed care group or a PBM as part of a position to be able to get a formula in position. And in fact, if you look at Medicare. Medicare typically has a higher rebate in fact I’d say it does have a higher rebate on average across the Part D plans for something like HUMIRA then the commercial plans get. Even though it only represents about 15% of our overall business for HUMIRA. So we take it very seriously how we negotiate for Medicare business, but I think there is also a lot of misconception, as it comes to rebating and the importance of rebating and what really drives HUMIRA’s success on these managed care contracts. Certainly getting access in the US is an important issue for any product in any category and we – role in that, but if you look at HUMIRA I think there is four, five important points that investors need to keep in mind. One is, if you look at our percent rebate as it relates to the competitors rebates I would tell you that, we’re certainly nowhere near the highest and in fact, we’re probably in the middle or slightly below the middle from a percent rebate standpoint. The second thing I would say is, if you look at the cost of therapy for HUMIRA for those assets that are on contract again we’re not the highest price product on contract and we’re not the lowest price product on contract. We’re pretty much in the middle of the pack. The third thing, I think this is a very important issue, over the course in the last couple of years most covered lives in the United States have moved to this open formula race . And those typically have between five and seven products on contract, with HUMIRA. And HUMIRA does extremely well in an environment where there is full choice. Physicians have total choice to prescribe any one of those drugs and HUMIRA has maintained it’s positioned as the number one product for capturing naïve patients. And so it’s not like we had this position where we have exclusive contracts where physicians have to prescribe HUMIRA. They prescribe HUMIRA because of the attribute to the product, the experience they’ve had, the comfort they’ve had with the safety profile of it and the rest of the attribute to the product. And I think what further illustrates that is, look we compete in every socialized health care system in the world, none of those systems have US Dollar rebates. Physicians have the choice to prescribe any drug is reimbursed in that country and if you look at our market share, if you look at our volume growth, if you look at the percent of naïve patients that we capture it’s very similar in let’s say Europe, to what it is in United States and so that tells you, it’s not rebates that are driving this. It is the attributes of the product and our ability to be able to execute. And so if, I think it would be disruptive to do dramatic things to the rebate but I’d also tell you, I don’t know that there is a way to make those changes any less disruptive way, but what I can tell you it was is whether we had a rebate based system or we had a discount base system. It doesn’t change our business model. One way or another. I think we could operate under either one of those and I don’t think anybody is contemplating getting rid of discounting altogether. So we’ll have to see how it plays out overtime, but I can tell you we’re confident in what are fundamentals that drives HUMIRA and what’s our ability to be able to continue to drive that level of performance. HCV. So right now we’re forecasting a step down in the third quarter. It’s primarily driven by two sets of assumptions, one is Japan. And in Japan, I think we indicated in the call last quarter, we had a number of patients that were DA failure patients that were in the system getting retreated. I can’t tell you that there is perfect data in Japan on how many of those patients there are, but we had forecasted that would go down somewhat and the second quarter and we continue to go down in third and fourth quarter. It didn’t go down as much as we had assumed in the second quarter, it did go down some, but it didn’t go down as much as we had assume. We’re assuming another step function down of those patients in third and fourth quarter. It’s hard to tell whether that’s going to happen or not, we’re going to have to see, how it plays out, but we normally will operate in a conservative mode and area where we don’t have good data to be able to predict it. The second area is the US and again it’s a similar phenomenon, as we were seeing patient volumes higher than we would have expected. Again we had projected that they would come down somewhat. In second quarter we didn’t see that come down, we’re projecting some reduction in patient volumes in the third and the fourth quarter. We’d love to see how that plays out, but that’s the basic difference. Bill, anything you would add?

Boris: Rick, if we look at the word interchange ability FDA withdrew some guidelines there but there continues to be a lot of saber rattling around that such as having proprietary manufactures tightness specification on there, manufacturing biologics to make it easier for companies to get into the market. There’s also some saber rattling around settlements most notably having the FDA look at settlements on a prospective versus a retrospective basis. Just your thoughts on those two potential risks on HUMIRA. And then last question just has to do with, the phases that you laid out at a competitors conference. Obviously Phase 1 since the spin in early 2013 operational execution has been superb. Phase 2 pipeline delivery and really where investor has been focused is Phase 3 your build out in solid tumors and potentially other areas such as neurosciences. Just your thoughts over the long-term on Phase 3 and the build out in that phase. Thanks. A –

Gonzalez: All right, thank you John. So I’ll cover maybe the first two questions and will have Mike cover question number three. If you look at interchange ability. I would say FDA certainly the discussion around this has ramped over the last several months I would say, but if you actually go back year and half or so ago, the FDA had come out with some guidance around interchange ability, what we needed to do to be able to have an interchangeable biosimilar. And we’re switching studies, I’m sure most investors are familiar what the requirements were. And so at that point, when we were doing our LRP, we made the decision the conscious decision that we would dial in interchangeable biosimilar, mean interchangeable biosimilar, but I think the prudent approach would be to dial again. So in all of our long range plans we had assumed that there would be one at the point of entry in the US, there would be US at least one interchangeable biosimilar in year one and multiple interchangeable biosimilars in year two and beyond. So I would say we’d dial that into our assumptions because we believe that was the intent of the FDA was to move in that direction. And I’d say that I think that became a prudent assumption because that clearly is, I think the direction that they’re ultimately going in. and so I mean it certainly changes some of the dynamics around how we think about it, but I don’t think it fundamentally the most significant dynamic and that is, we have always said when biosimilars enter the market, when they’re available to be able to enter the market, that we will compete on price in that competitive environment to maintain the vast majority of the line. And that’s certainly good for the healthcare system and I think if you look at the free market system that exist today and you look at examples where that competition has played out like HCV and example, the system gets a huge benefit from it. And so I’d say based on our long range plan, there is nothing in the feedback we’ve seen so far around the biosimilar plan that is significantly different than what we already assume. As it relates to settlements, I think that is unfortunately an area where over the last few weeks or few months, there has been a lot of discussion about the HUMIRA patent state and our licensing agreements whether that was direct or indirect, that’s not accurate and certainly isn’t complete and so I think it is important sort of set the record straight as it relates to that because we have been very thoughtful about how we did this. So I’m going to cover a couple of points that I think are important, but what I would say on the front end of the system or the front end of my comments rather, is there’s nothing about our intellectual property around HUMIRA or the licensing agreements that we done that we’ve entered into so far, that’s anything close to gaining the system or operating around some set of loopholes. Let’s start with the patents first, we obviously have a robust patent portfolio that protects our investment HUMIRA’s innovation, manufacturing, formulations and methods of use, those are the major areas that we have . We’ve invested heavily in HUMIRA over the course of the life of HUMIRA. It’s important to recognize it was the first FDA approved human monoclone antibody and we invested a tremendous amount and research and development to expand the approved indications to the 10 different distinct disease states that HUMIRA operates in now. And we’ve improved in the applying to manufacturing and the formulation of HUMIRA overtime and there’s nothing inappropriate about protecting that investment and innovation. In fact I’d say it’s a hallmark, that our society here in the US being able to protect through the IP system your innovation. Secondly I’d say is, if you look at – there’s a mechanism by which people can challenge patents in the US. And if you look at our US patents they’ve been challenged now 20 times in IPR’s at the USPTO. And despite the fact that, in IPR process there is a lower burden approved for invalidity and generally, you get a fairly high invalidation rate in IPR proceedings. The HUMIRA patents have done extremely well. Off the 12 HUMIRA patents that have reached banality in the IPR process, nine have been found to be valid. Further, the PTO has rejected eight challenges the formulation patents and those patents expire between August of 2022 and November of 2028. And this year the PTO rejected challenges to patents covering psoriasis, UC and Crohn’s indications all of which expire April, 2025. So that brings me to our settlements, if you look at that robust patent portfolio our settlement agreement actually facilitate biosimilar entry in the United States, Europe and the rest of the world. In the US we have patents with exploration dates well beyond 2030 and our earliest to expire IP is June, 2022. The first license that we grant to biosimilar was the Amgen license. If you look at the entry date of that in US. It’s approximately six months later than our first two expired patent. Given the breadth of the IP that we have and the overwhelming strength of the patents that we have, the license entry date represents what I would describe as a fairly negotiated license agreements that expedites biosimilar entry into the United States. The other thing I would say is, that’s very important to recognize under none of our settlements are there any payments or any other kind of inducement from AbbVie to the biosimilar player. Instead what there are, there are royalties paid to AbbVie for specified amounts for a defined period of time, by the biosimilar player to be able to enter the market and use those patents and that’s exactly the kind of arrangements that promote competition in markets around the world.

Inc.: Thank you, Rick. This morning I'll highlight noteworthy pipeline updates from the quarter and discuss several of the key milestones we anticipate over the next 12 months. I'll start with oncology where we're making very good progress advancing our programs for IMBRUVICA and VENCLEXTA. As Rick mentioned, these two therapies have the potential to transform the treatment of CLL and other hematological malignancies by providing chemotherapy-free options that deliver better long-term disease control and improved outcomes for patients. IMBRUVICA has already changed the treatment paradigm in relapsed/refractory CLL and we're making significant progress in the front line setting. The current IMBRUVICA label in front line CLL is based on strong data from the RESONATE 2 study which evaluated IMBRUVICA versus chlorambucil in older CLL patients. We have several ongoing studies evaluating IMBRUVICA alone and in combination in additional patient populations and versus more widely used comparators. Our program includes studies in young and fit patients where we are evaluating IMBRUVICA versus regimens such as FCR, BR, and GAZYVA chlorambucil, often thought of as the gold standards in CLL treatment. We are also conducting studies in patients in the watch and wait population who are at increased risk of depression. Data from two important studies in our front line CLL program the iLLUMINATE study and the Alliance study will be presented at the upcoming ASH meeting. In the iLLUMINATE study, we evaluated IMBRUVICA plus GAZYVA compared to a combination of GAZYVA and chlorambucil or GC. In June, we reported that the IMBRUVICA arm in this study demonstrated significantly longer progression-free survival compared to GC. Based on these results in the third quarter, the FDA accepted our regulatory application for IMBRUVICA in combination with GAZYVA for first line treatment of CLL. At ASH, the Alliance Cooperative Group will be presenting results from a Phase 3 study which evaluated IMBRUVICA alone and in combination with Rituxan versus BR. In this study, treatment with IMBRUVICA alone or in combination with Rituxan demonstrated superior progression-free survival compared with BR in previously untreated CLL patients over the age of 65. The evidence from these studies demonstrate IMBRUVICA's compelling clinical benefit in front line populations beyond those addressed by RESONATE 2 and will provide an opportunity to treat significantly more patients in the front line setting. Over the course of the next few years, there will be additional data readouts for IMBRUVICA in front-line CLL that we believe will help drive further penetration. We continue to make good progress with IMBRUVICA in other hematologic malignancies as well. In the quarter, we received approval for IMBRUVICA in combination with Rituxan as the first chemotherapy-free combination treatment for Waldenström's macroglobulinemia. This marks the ninth FDA approval for IMBRUVICA. Moving now to VENCLEXTA, where we are making substantial progress in several hematologic malignancies, including CLL, AML, and multiple myeloma, in the quarter, we received an expanded label for VENCLEXTA to include minimal residual disease negativity data from the MURANO trial. This follows our approval in the broader relapsed/refractory CLL setting received this summer and is VENCLEXTA's second label expansion in 2018. MRD negativity, which is undetectable disease at a threshold of 1 in 10,000 cells, is becoming an increasingly important goal in the treatment of patients with CLL. The rates of MRD negativity demonstrated in the MURANO trial support VENCLEXTA's ability to drive deep responses and potential to provide long periods of remission for these patients. The inclusion of these data in the VENCLEXTA label is another important milestone for our program. We are also making very good progress with VENCLEXTA in the front-line CLL setting. We recently announced positive top line results from the CLL14 study, which evaluated VENCLEXTA in combination with GAZYVA versus GAZYVA plus chlorambucil. We expect to present detailed data from this study at an upcoming medical meeting. The CLL14 study will form the basis of regulatory submissions in the coming months and will move us further towards our goal of establishing VENCLEXTA as a foundational chemotherapy-free option in the CLL market. Beyond CLL, we are also making good progress in other hematologic malignancies such as AML and multiple myeloma, where w0e've seen strong mid-stage data and are nearing completion of the first registrational studies in both indications. Our U.S. regulatory application for VENCLEXTA in first-line AML patients who can't receive high-dose induction chemotherapy is currently under review with the FDA, with an approval decision expected by the end of the year. This accelerated approval will be based on compelling data from our Phase 2 study, with confirmatory results from our Phase 3 program expected in 2019. In multiple myeloma, we're expecting data in the first half of 2019 from the Phase 3 BELLINI study, which is evaluating VENCLEXTA in combination with Velcade and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. We are also exploring VENCLEXTA as a potential treatment in front-line multiple myeloma, with Phase 3 studies expected to begin in 2019. Moving now to immunology, where we continue to make good progress across all stages of our portfolio, we have built a strong leadership position in immunology, and AbbVie has played an integral role in defining the standard of care across the rheumatology, dermatology, and gastroenterology segments. At the recent ACR, UEGW, and EADV meetings, we showcased our immunology portfolio and presented a total of 70 abstracts, reinforcing our deep scientific expertise and commitment to researching innovative therapies in these areas. Our immunology franchise, which we believe is the best in the industry, is evolving to a portfolio of therapies with the forthcoming commercialization of our two late-stage assets, upadacitinib and risankizumab, next year. In late-stage development, we have registrational programs ongoing for upadacitinib, our JAK1 selective inhibitor, in five immune-mediated conditions, including rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, atopic dermatitis, Crohn's disease, and ulcerative colitis. And we plan to begin Phase 3 studies in the sixth potential indication for upadacitinib, giant cell arteritis, in the first half of 2019. In rheumatoid arthritis, the lead indication for upadacitinib, we remain on track to submit our regulatory application by the end of the year. At the ACR meeting last week, we presented nine abstracts for upadacitinib in RA, including data from three of the five Phase 3 registrational studies. As we gather long-term data from the Phase 3 studies in the SELECT program, we remain very encouraged by the profile that we have observed. Based on the data generated across our clinical program, we remain very confident in the benefit/risk profile for upadacitinib and believe that it will offer meaningful advantages over products on the market today or in development. At the recent UEGW meeting, we presented Phase 2 upadacitinib data in ulcerative colitis, demonstrating that significantly more patients treated with upadacitinib achieved clinical remission and a scopic improvement in clinical response following induction therapy versus placebo. These results look very promising based on the strong signal we've observed. Moving now to our anti-IL-23 antibody, risankizumab, where like upadacitinib, we're evaluating the asset in several indications, in addition to the lead indication, psoriasis, we have Phase 3 studies ongoing in Crohn's disease, Phase 2 studies ongoing in ulcerative colitis, and expect to initiate Phase 3 studies in psoriatic arthritis in the first half of 2019. The regulatory applications in psoriasis are currently under review, with approval decisions expected in the first half of 2019. Across each of the four Phase 3 studies in the pivotal program, risankizumab consistently showed very high and durable rates of skin clearance. Based on these results, we believe risankizumab has the potential to significantly improve upon current treatment options for both bio-naïve and TNF-inadequate responder patients with moderate to severe psoriasis while providing the convenience of quarterly dosing. We are also making very good progress advancing our early-stage immunology pipeline, with several of our next-generation assets recently starting Phase 2 studies and several more expected to begin Phase 2 over the course of the next 12 months. ABBV-599, our JAK inhibitor/BTK inhibitor combination, recently began Phase 2 in RA and will begin Phase 2 in lupus next year. ABBV-323, our CD40 antagonist, recently transitioned to Phase 2 in ulcerative colitis. And our anti-TNF steroid ADC program is moving through multi-dose Phase 1 studies, with Phase 2 expected to begin in 2019. We look forward to providing updates on these programs as the mid-stage data mature. And lastly, in the area of neuroscience, we continue to make good progress with our preclinical and early clinical programs. Neuroscience is an emerging area of focus for AbbVie, and we are making considerable internal and external investments. We're advancing research across several neurodegenerative disorders with innovative approaches such as targeting tau, trem2, cd33, and alpha-synuclein, just to name a few. In 2019, we and our partners expect to transition several programs from our neuroscience collaborations into the clinic. So in summary, we've continued to make significant progress advancing and accelerating our programs over the quarter, and we look forward to many more important pipeline milestones in the coming months and through 2019. With that, I'll turn the call over to Bill for additional comments on our third quarter performance. Bill?

Inc.: Thanks, Mike. We are very pleased with our strong third quarter results. Total adjusted net revenues were $8.2 billion, up 18.5% operationally excluding a 70 basis point unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $2.14, up 51.8% compared to the third quarter of 2017. Adjusted EPS exceeded the midpoint of our prior guidance range by $0.13 due to favorable sales and operating margin profile dynamics. HUMIRA global sales were $5.1 billion in the quarter, up nearly 10% operationally. In the U.S., HUMIRA sales increased 12.5% compared to the prior year, with more than half driven by underlying volume growth plus a mid-single digit price contribution. The growth rate in the quarter also reflected a modest stocking benefit from the launch of our new citrate-free formulation. Wholesaler inventory levels remained roughly half a month in the quarter. International HUMIRA sales approached $1.6 billion in the quarter, up 4.2% on an operational basis and in line with our prior guidance. In oncology, global sales of heme products were nearly $1.1 billion in the third quarter led by the continued strong growth of both IMBRUVICA and VENCLEXTA. In the quarter, IMBRUVICA net revenues were $972 million, increasing more than 40% versus the prior year, primarily driven by market share gains across all lines of therapy in CLL. Venclexta revenues were $96 million in the quarter driven by uptake in the second-line plus setting as a result of our recent approval in the broad relapsed/refractory CLL segment. Global HCV sales in the quarter were $862 million. MAVYRET continues to perform very well, holding roughly 50% market share globally. As expected, we saw sequentially lower sales internationally as a result of fewer warehoused patients in certain markets. We also saw double-digit operational sales growth in both DUODOPA and CREON. Turning to the P&L profile for the quarter, adjusted gross margin was 81.7% of sales, up 90 basis points compared to the prior year. This was inclusive of the year-over-year benefit related to the termination of certain HUMIRA royalties and the impact of favorable foreign exchange partially offset by the dilutive impact of partnership accounting. Adjusted R&D was 15.4% of sales in the quarter, supporting our pipeline programs in oncology, immunology and other areas. Adjusted SG&A was 19.1% of sales in the quarter, a decrease of 170 basis points versus the prior year, reflecting sales leverage as well as operational efficiencies. The adjusted operating margin profile was 47.2% of sales in the quarter, an improvement of 430 basis points versus the prior year. Net interest expense was $302 million in the quarter, and the adjusted tax rate was 9.1%. Turning to full year guidance, as Rick mentioned, today we are raising our full year adjusted EPS guidance range to $7.90 to $7.92 per share, representing growth of 41.3% at the midpoint. This guidance assumes an increase in adjusted net revenue which we now expect to approach $32.7 billion, with full year operational performance of approximately 15% which is also above our previously communicated guidance. At current exchange rates, we continue to expect a favorable foreign currency benefit on the year of less than 1%. This forecast comprehends the following assumptions related to our key products. For IMBRUVICA, we now expect global revenues to AbbVie to be above $3.5 billion with U.S. sales above $2.9 billion. For international HUMIRA at current exchange rates, we now expect sales to approach $6.3 billion. This updated forecast incorporates the latest dynamics we are seeing following the introduction of biosimilar competition across certain markets in mid-October. We continue to expect U.S. HUMIRA sales of approximately $13.7 billion, and we continue to forecast global HCV sales of above $3.5 billion. We forecast full year adjusted gross margin to be above 80.5% of sales and now expect adjusted operating margin to approach 45% of sales. All other full year 2018 guidance assumptions remain unchanged. For the fourth quarter, we expect adjusted earnings per share to be between $1.89 and $1.91. This adjusted EPS guidance excludes roughly $0.26 of non-cash amortization and other specified items, and represents year-over-year growth of more than 28% at the midpoint. We expect fourth quarter operational sales growth of above 7%. At current rates, we would expect foreign exchange to have an unfavorable impact on reported sales growth of less than 1% in the quarter. In closing, once again, we have delivered outstanding performance in a quarter. We have driven top and bottom line growth that has been strong while continuing to advance our pipeline. Our increased guidance range for 2018 puts us among the top of our industry peers once again with the midpoint of the range representing growth of more than 41%. And underscoring our confidence going forward, as Rick mentioned earlier, today we announced an 11.5% increase in our quarterly cash dividend beginning with the dividend payable in February 2019. And with that,

Inc.: Thank you, Bill. Before we open the call for questions I wanted to say a few words about Bill so this is the part where I'm going to embarrass Bill. I guess you won't be able to tell that because you can't see him but Bill, as you know, recently announced his intention to retire in the summer of 2019. I can tell you that Bill has been my partner since we launched AbbVie, and he has played a very significant role in the tremendous success that we have been able to deliver. I've known Bill and worked with Bill in some form or fashion at least 25 years. Between Abbott and AbbVie, Bill has had a tremendous 30-year career. I can tell you that personally I will miss Bill when he retires. I told him the story about me flunking retirement, that didn't seem to faze him very much. But in all seriousness, I know that Bill and his family are extremely excited about moving to Europe next summer and starting this new chapter in their lives. So I can tell you that all of us here at AbbVie wish him and his family all the best, and I know he'll do extremely well and he's extremely excited about this move. As I mentioned, Bill will be with us until the middle of next year, so many of you will have an opportunity to congratulate him personally prior to his departure.

I: Thanks for taking the question. Maybe you can discuss your confidence in the outlook for approval of VENCLEXTA in the AML, despite not having a randomized data, as well as if you can quantify that part of the addressable market.

Inc.: Sure, this is Mike. I'll take that. So we've had Breakthrough Therapy Designation for AML in the U.S., which gives us good insight into the FDA's thinking on the standard for approval. And when you couple that with the very strong Phase 2 data that we've generated where the combination complete response in something that's called complete response with incomplete hematologic recovery, which is the way the data are looked at in that field, are on the order of about two to three times higher than historical comparators. It's the strength of that evidence based on – and that coupled with our understanding of what it's going to take to get approved in the U.S. that gives us confidence. We also have our Phase 3 studies up and running and well underway. And they're positioned to readout next year, so in 2019. So it's that full picture that gives us that confidence. In terms of how much of the addressable market that represents, it's a substantial portion. AML tends to have a peak incidence later in life, and up to about half of patients can't undergo intensive induction chemotherapy and then go on to stem cell transplant. And for those patients, there really are very, very limited treatment options. And it's in those very difficult to treat patients that VENCLEXTA has demonstrated the data that I described. So we think that there is a very real opportunity here that will be very important both medically and commercially.

Inc.: And maybe to just give a little more color on VENCLEXTA, what we're seeing, because AML is obviously a portion of that, I mean, if you looked at the AML market in total, it's probably a couple of billion dollars. And as Mike said, roughly half of that is addressable, although I will say we are seeing some activity where physicians are pretreating patients prior to induction chemotherapy to get disease activity down. So it could be even larger than half of that population in AML. As I indicated in my remarks a few moments ago, we are seeing VENCLEXTA take a fairly significant inflection in growth since we released the MURANO data, and I think physicians have become more aware of the AML data. If you actually look at patient starts compared to the first quarter of 2018 and looking at them versus the third quarter of 2018, they're up 73%. So obviously the brand is starting to really grow at a fairly rapid pace. It's at about a $400 million running rate right now and growing rapidly. So I think you can expect that you'll continue to see very strong growth out of VENCLEXTA, and it will be an important contributor to our oncology growth going forward.

Inc.: On biotech valuations, I guess I'll clarify the $20 billion to $30 billion comment. What I was trying to describe in that meeting was what we viewed as a larger bolt-on, not that we were actively pursuing a transaction in that range. But having said that, if you look regardless of value, if I look at biotech valuations now, although they've come down some, they're still valued pretty highly, and valued in a forward-looking way. And what I mean by that is if you get some early data, you tend to see valuations rise very rapidly in anticipation of future positive data. But when we look at a transaction, just like everybody else in the industry, you have to evaluate the risk of that data not playing out in a larger study, a later study. And so valuations are still – for the stage of the product, still have a tendency to get ahead of where the right balance is for the risk reward of a good return. Doesn't mean every single one of them is that way. But I'm talking in generalities now. And certainly all of us continue to look for those opportunities where there's the right value and an exciting opportunity. We have seen some of those that we've brought in, and we'll continue to look for those.

Gonzalez: Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I'll discuss our first quarter performance and highlights, as well as our full year guidance, which we are raising this quarter. Mike will then provide an update on recent advancements across our R&D programs and Rob will discuss the quarter in more detail. Following our remarks, we will take your questions. I'm pleased to report that we're off to an excellent start in 2019, reinforcing our confidence in the long-term fundamentals of our business. We are seeing strong momentum across all aspects of our operations, with excellent growth from our hematological oncology portfolio, continued robust growth from HUMIRA in the US, international biosimilar impacts is trending within our expectations for 2019. And importantly, our late-stage pipeline continues to deliver, with the recent approval of SKYRIZI in major markets globally. We delivered first quarter adjusted earnings per share of $2.14, representing growth of more than 14% versus the prior year, and once again exceeding our guidance. Total revenues of more than $7.8 billion were also ahead of expectations for the quarter, with several key products contributing to that growth. We saw excellent performance from our hematological oncology business, with global operational sales growth of more than 43%. US HUMIRA grew more than 7% versus a last year, driven by continued robust demand. International HUMIRA sales were down 23% on an operational basis, reflecting the impact of direct biosimilar competition in Europe and other international markets. The international biosimilar trends and dynamics have been consistent with our expectations. We also saw a substantial contributions from several other products in our portfolio, including Mavyret, Creon and Duodopa. We're certainly pleased with our commercial performance and our financial results for the quarter, and we remain well-positioned to deliver double-digit earnings growth once again in 2019. As noted in our earnings release, we are raising our full year 2019 guidance and now expect adjusted earnings between $8.73 and $8.83, reflecting growth of 11% at the midpoint. In addition to the strong financial results, we have continued to make significant progress, building a pipeline that will allow us to maintain a growing and vibrant business. Since our inception, we've put tremendous effort and resources toward developing new therapies that advance the standard-of-care across a spectrum of important disease states. With special emphasis on doing so in a broad range of immune-mediated diseases, our central focus has been on advancing new medicines that will raise the bar and address important therapeutic needs for patients. We believe that risankizumab and upadacitinib have achieved the objectives that we set forth. Both of these therapies have demonstrated differentiated clinical profiles versus HUMIRA, as well as other mechanisms on the market or those in development. This profile coupled with our strong commercial execution gives us tremendous confidence that both will be the new standard-of-care in their respective indications. We recently announced the approval of risankizumab now known as SKYRIZI in the US and Japan for the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. These approvals mark a major milestone for AbbVie and further demonstrate our commitment and leadership in immunology. We're certainly pleased with the approved label for SKYRIZI, which reflects its best in category efficacy, favorable benefit risk and quarterly dosing. As you know, we also have a highly experienced team, including the leading immunology marketing team and sales force, which will support this launch. Given its compelling product profile, we expect to secure rapid and broad formulary coverage for SKYRIZI, with more than 50% commercial access by the end of July, a 90-day access metric not achieved by any other recent launch in the psoriasis category. SKYRIZI represents a significant long-term opportunity for AbbVie, with multi-billion dollar peak sales potential. We have also been planning and preparing for the forthcoming regulatory approval and commercial launch of upadacitinib, our JAK1-selective inhibitor in rheumatoid arthritis. We've been extremely encouraged by the level of efficacy and benefit risk profile observed across the entire upadacitinib clinical program, including its clear superiority versus HUMIRA, the current gold standard for the treatment of RA. Based on the data generated across our program, we believe upadacitinib will offer meaningful advantage over other products on the market today for those in development and we remain on track for US regulatory decision in the third quarter. With a robust and differentiated data we produced from our assets and the launch of several new products now under way, we remain confident that the strategy we have in place is working extremely well. We're excited to see the evolution of our pipeline assets from promising late-stage development compounds to successful on-market products. SKYRIZI marks the 12th new product or major indication approval for AbbVie in the last five years, demonstrating the productivity of our R&D investments, which is vital for the long-term success of any innovation-driven biopharmaceutical company like ours. So, in summary, I'm extremely pleased with the strong execution and pipeline advancement we're seeing, leading to our increase in expectations for 2019. We are off to an exceptional start of the year, followed by several years of market-leading performance and we're well-positioned to continue to deliver top tier financial performance in 2019 and beyond. With that, I will turn the call over to Mike for additional comments on our R&D programs. Mike?

Severino: Thank you, Rick. I'll start with immunology, where, as Rick noted, we've made significant progress with both of our late-stage assets. We recently received approval in the US and Japan for SKYRIZI in moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and expect an approval decision in Europe very soon. Based on the positive CHMP opinion we received at the end of February. These approvals are supported by a broad clinical development program, where SKYRIZI demonstrated a very start strong profile in Phase 3 studies across more than 2,000 patients. We are pleased with the SKYRIZI label, which reflects the efficacy and safety profile demonstrated across our program. As we evaluate the available biologic treatment options, we believe SKYRIZI has a best in disease product profile, with differentiated attributes across the categories that physicians and patients the most important, including skin clearance, durability of response and dosing, with a favorable benefit risk profile. In our Phase 3 studies, SKYRIZI demonstrated very high rates of durable skin clearance, with more than 80% of patients achieving PASI 90 and 60% of patients achieving PASI 100 or complete skin clearance at one year. Importantly, the proportion of SKYRIZI treated patients who achieve these high levels of response increased over time. In fact, the level of complete skin clearance at the one-year mark is the highest reported in a Phase 3 program to our knowledge. In psoriasis both speed and durability of response are important considerations for an optimal therapy, as loss of efficacy is a key concern for both patients and physicians. Our clinical trials demonstrated clearance after just a single dose of SKYRIZI, as measured by the mean change in PASI score. The average skin clearance following the first dose was 58%, increasing to 91% after two doses and 95% after five doses. SKYRIZI also provides a best in category dosing profile, with convenient quarterly dosing and flexibility for in-office or at home self-administration. We look forward to bringing this new treatment option to psoriasis patients. We also continue to make good progress with the development programs for SKYRIZI in several other immune-mediated conditions, with late-stage studies ongoing in several follow-on indications. We look forward to providing updates on these programs as the data mature. Moving now to our other late-stage immunology assets, upadacitinib, where regulatory applications are currently under review for its initial indication rheumatoid arthritis. Our regulatory submissions are based on a comprehensive Phase 3 program. In our program, upadacitinib demonstrated strong results across a wide range of patients, including patients early in the treatment paradigm, who are naive to methotrexate, as well as patients who are heavily pre-treated with biologics. Upadacitinib is the only JAK1-selective inhibitor to meet all primary and secondary endpoints across all registrational trials. Importantly, upadacitinib demonstrated clear superiority versus HUMIRA across all key measures evaluated in a head-to-head study, as well as clear structural benefit in two Phase 3 studies. Upadacitinib also performed extremely well as monotherapy, which we view as another important differentiator, because although methotrexate is commonly used as a first-line therapy, many patients do not respond to or cannot tolerate methotrexate treatment. Based on the data generated across our clinical program, we remain confident in the benefit risk profile for upadacitinib and believe that it will offer meaningful advantages over other therapeutic options. We continue to anticipate a regulatory decision in the third quarter and look forward to bringing this new therapy to the market. Moving now to our hematologic oncology portfolio. In the quarter IMBRUVICA received FDA approval for its 10th indication. For using combination with GAZYVA in front-line CLL. This represents the first approval for a chemotherapy free combination regimen and treatment-naive patients with CLL. The approval is based on results from the Phase 3 iLLUMINATE study, in which treatment with the combination of IMBRUVICA and GAZYVA demonstrated a significant improvement in the risk of progression or death compared to treatment with Chlorambucil and GAZYVA. iLLUMINATE trial is one of several important Phase 3 studies that have demonstrated treatment with IMBRUVICA alone or in combination significantly prolongs progression-free survival compared to therapies such as FCR, BR and GC and previously untreated CLL patients. These studies add to the breadth of data supporting IMBRUVICA, providing physicians more evidence of its compelling clinical benefits in the front-line setting. The data from three of these studies have been reflected in the NCCN Treatment Guidelines for front-line CLL, which now position IMBRUVICA as the only preferred regimen in the major segments of this market. We anticipate submitting data from other Phase 3 studies in front-line CLL for label augmentation later this year or early next year. Moving now to VENCLEXTA, where our supplemental NDA and front-line CLL is currently being reviewed by the FDA under its real-time oncology review program. In conjunction with this submission VENCLEXTA received priority review, as well as a fifth breakthrough therapy designation. If granted, this approval will provide physicians and patients an important new treatment option and substantially expand the addressable population for which is VENCLEXTA is approved in CLL. We anticipate a regulatory decision later this year. Last month, we disclosed top line data from the Phase 3 Bellini study in patients with relapsed-refractory multiple myeloma. While the study met the primary endpoint of progression-free survival, a higher proportion of deaths was observed in the VENCLEXTA arm compared to the control arm. Based on these data the FDA placed a partial clinical hold on all trials evaluating VENCLEXTA in multiple myeloma. We're working with the FDA to further analyze these results. But based on the data we have produced today, we continue to believe there is a potential role for VENCLEXTA in the biomarket defined myeloma population. We will provide updates on the multiple myeloma program as they become available. Moving now to the area of women's health, where we're nearing completion of our pivotal program for Elagolix in uterine fibroids. Our registrational program evaluated nearly 800 women with heavy menstrual bleeding associated with uterine fibroids in two pivotal studies. The results of the two pivotal studies demonstrated that Elagolix in combination with low-dose hormone add-back therapy significantly reduced heavy menstrual bleeding compared to placebo. Current non-surgical treatments are limited in this area and women suffering from uterine fibroids need more therapeutic options. The results from these studies represent a significant advancement for women suffering from uterine fibroids and approval in this disease would represent an attractive follow on indication. We remain on track to submit our regulatory application in the middle of this year. And in neuroscience, we are in the process of initiating a Phase 3 trial to support registration of ABBV 951, our innovative, subcutaneous levodopa/carbidopa delivery system. Continuous delivery of levodopa/carbidopa has proven to be very effective in managing motor fluctuations in patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. Duopa has helped to establish AbbVie's presence in this market and by providing patients with a less invasive non-surgical delivery option, this next-generation approach has the potential to broaden the treated patient population and help strengthen AbbVie's position in the advanced PD market. In summary, we're extremely pleased with the productivity of our R&D organization, as we continue to invest in our pipeline to develop innovative medicines and support our long-term growth. We're seeing progress across all stages and in all therapeutic areas of our pipeline. With many important catal -- catalysts expected over the next 12 months to 18 months. With that, I'll turn the call over to Rob for additional comments on our first quarter performance. Rob?

Michael: Thanks, Mike. As Rick mentioned, we had another quarter of outstanding performance. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $2.14, up more than 14% compared to prior year and $0.08 above our guidance midpoint. For the first quarter, net revenues were up 0.4% on an operational basis, excluding a 1% -- 1.7% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. Strong growth from several key products offset the impact of the first full quarter of international biosimilar competition. US HUMIRA sales were $3.2 billion, up 7.1% compared to prior year, driven by continued strong demand. Wholesaler inventory levels remained below half a month in the quarter. International HUMIRA sales were $1.2 billion, down 23% operationally, reflecting biosimilar competition across Europe and other international markets, and in line with our expectations. Hematologic oncology global sales were $1.2 billion, up 43.2% on an operational basis, driven by the continued strong growth of both IMBRUVICA and VENCLEXTA. IMBRUVICA global net revenues were more than $1 billion, primarily driven by continued uptake in the front-line CLL segment. In CLL, IMBRUVICA remains the market leader across all lines of therapy, with new patient share of more than 25% in the front-line setting. VENCLEXTA revenues were $151 million, driven by continued progress in the broad relapsed refractory CLL segment and our recent launch in first-line AML. We continue to be pleased with our strong global position in HCV. In the US, HCV revenues were up more than 17%, reflecting higher market share versus the prior year quarter. Our International business has also experienced positive share dynamics. But given patient de-warehousing in select markets during the prior year quarter, International HCV revenue declined approximately 25% on an operational basis, consistent with our expectations. We also saw continued strong operational sales growth for both Duodopa and Creon. Turning now to the P&L profile for the first quarter. Adjusted gross margin was 83.3% of sales, up 310 basis points compared to the prior year, including a 280-basis-point benefit related to the expiration of HUMIRA royalties. Adjusted R&D investment was 15.3% of sales, supporting our pipeline programs on oncology, immunology and other areas. Adjusted SG&A was 20% of sales, consistent with our expectations. The adjusted operating margin was 48.1% of sales, an improvement of 400 basis points versus the prior year. Net interest expense was $325 million and the adjusted tax rate was 7.9%. As mentioned earlier, based on our strong performance year-to-date, we are raising our full year adjusted earnings per share guidance to between $8.73 to $8.83, reflecting growth of 11% at the midpoint. Excluded from this guidance is $1.47 of known intangible amortization and specified items, as well as a non-cash charge for contingent consideration related to the recent approval of SKYRIZI. We plan to communicate details about this charge on our second quarter earnings call. This revised guidance continues to contemplate full year revenue growth of approximately 1% on an operational basis. At current rates, we now expect foreign exchange to have approximately 1% unfavorable impact on full year reported sales growth. As Rick and Mike noted, we're pleased with the recent approval of SKYRIZI. Given the quarterly dosing schedule and our free goods program to bridge patients to commercial access, we expect very modest sales contribution from SKYRIZI in the second quarter. For the full year, our revenue guidance includes approximately $150 million of SKYRIZI sales, which will predominantly occur in the second half of the year. All other full year 2019 forecast assumptions for our key products remain unchanged. Turning now to the P&L for 2019. We now expect an adjusted gross margin ratio approaching 83% and we now expect adjusted operating margin to be just above 47%, roughly 250 basis points above prior year and inclusive of the required investments for our new product launches. All other full year 2019 guidance assumptions remain unchanged. As we look ahead to the second quarter, we expect adjusted earnings per share between $2.20 and $2.22, excluding approximately $0.30 of non-cash amortization and other specified items. As mentioned earlier, this guidance excludes a non-cash charge for contingent consideration related to the approval of SKYRIZI. We anticipate second quarter adjusted revenue above $8.1 billion. At current rates, we would expect foreign exchange to have an unfavorable impact on reported sales growth of approximately 1.5%. For US HUMIRA, we expect sales growth of approximately 7%. We expect International HUMIRA sales of approximately $1 billion assuming current exchange rates. And for IMBRUVICA we expect global sales approaching $1.1 billion . Moving now to the P&L for the second quarter. We are forecasting an adjusted operating margin ratio comparable to first quarter results. We anticipate higher spending in the second half of the year related to new product launches. And we expect the adjusted tax rate to be in line with our full year guidance, which is just above our 2018 rate. In summary, AbbVie has once again delivered an excellent quarter, with results well ahead of our expectations. Our strong growth prospects have enabled us to position the business for another year of double-digit earnings growth in 2019, despite Biosimilar dynamics and the required investments to support several major product launches. We are very pleased with AbbVie's strong performance.

Scala: Thank you. I have a few questions. First, raising guidance after the first quarter is clearly a sign of confidence in the outlook. I believe, AbbVie raised after Q1 last year on its way to a great full year performance. How many times in its history has AbbVie raised guidance after the first quarter? Secondly, on the gross profit margin was quite strong. You mentioned the royalty relief. Were there any other one-time benefits in the quarter? And then, lastly, AbbVie has an exciting late-stage pipeline, but also an expansive early to mid-stage pipeline. Within the early to mid-stage pipeline, what products look most interesting and promising?

Gonzalez: Thank you, Liz. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today. I'll discuss our second quarter performance and highlights as well as our full year guidance which we are raising again this quarter. Mike will then provide an update on recent advancements across our R&D programs and Rob will discuss the quarter in more detail. Following our remarks, we'll take your questions. AbbVie once again delivered an outstanding quarter with adjusted earnings per share of $2.26, representing growth of 13% versus last year exceeding our guidance. Total revenues of more than $8.2 billion was also ahead of our expectations for the quarter with several key products contributing to that growth. We saw excellent performance from our hematological oncology business with global operational sales growth of nearly 40%. IMBRUVICA is performing exceptionally well with robust share growth across multiple lines of therapy in CLL including new patient share of approximately 35% in the frontline setting, up approximately 10 share points over the past year. This strong momentum directly relates to the growing body of clinical evidence, label augmentation, and recently updated treatment guidelines which now position IMBRUVICA as the only preferred therapy in the frontline CLL market. VENCLEXTA also continues to make very good progress in the broad relapsed/refractory CLL setting and has established a strong growth trajectory in the recently approved indications for first-line CLL and AML. U.S. HUMIRA grew more than 7.5% versus last year driven by continued strong volume growth across all segments. And despite a very competitive environment, HUMIRA remains the market leader across each of the three primary categories; rheum, derm, and gastro. During the quarter, we also announced our ninth global settlement agreement resolving all IP-related litigation with BI over their biosimilar HUMIRA. This final settlement agreement reinforces our confidence that we will not see direct biosimilar competition in the U.S. until 2023. International HUMIRA sales were down 31% on an operational basis, reflecting the impact of direct biosimilar competition in Europe and other international markets. The international biosimilar trends and dynamics remain consistent with our expectations. And SKYRIZI, our recently approved treatment for moderate to severe plaque psoriasis is performing significantly above our expectations, contributing nearly $50 million in revenue this quarter. The launch is going extremely well. We are seeing strong prescription volume well above recent launch analogs in the psoriasis category. Through the first 11 weeks of launch, we already have approximately 1,700 prescribing physicians and approximately 3,750 patients have been treated with SKYRIZI including those in our bridge access program. We're extremely encouraged by this uptake which supports our continued confidence in the asset. Commercial access for SKYRIZI is also tracking in line with our expectations. As a result of the launch progress and the momentum, we are increasing our full year guidance for SKYRIZI and now expect full year global sales of approximately $250 million. The outlook for SKYRIZI remains very strong and it represents a significant long-term opportunity for AbbVie with multibillion-dollar peak sales potential. We're also very pleased with our overall commercial performance and financial results for the quarter. We remain well-positioned to deliver double-digit earnings growth once again in 2019. As noted in our earnings release we are raising our full year 2019 EPS guidance and now expect adjusted earnings between $8.82 and $8.92 reflecting growth of 12.1% at the midpoint which is at the very top of the expectations for our peer group. Clearly, this is an extremely exciting time for AbbVie. Before I turn the call over to Mike and Rob, I want to speak briefly about our proposed acquisition of Allergan and the progress we are making. We've had an opportunity to speak with many investors over the past several weeks since the announcement to share the strategic rationale for the transaction and our outreach with investors will continue as we have a number of opportunities to engage with shareholders in the coming months. The integration planning is already underway and we are working to ensure a seamless transition on day one. We've identified individuals within AbbVie that will lead the integration process and there will be dedicated teams to ensure there is no disruption to our strong momentum. And finally I'll be meeting with the Allergan employees in the coming weeks. I look forward to engaging with and ultimately welcoming this experienced and very talented organization into AbbVie. We remain incredibly excited about the transaction which has significant strategic merit. The acquisition represents a unique opportunity for AbbVie to accelerate our non-HUMIRA business, the AbbVie growth platform by adding highly valuable on-market assets with leadership positions across attractive growth segments. AbbVie's new growth platform will achieve stand-alone scale immediately with sales of more than $30 billion in 2020 and top-tier growth prospects. And it will enable enhanced funding of our innovative R&D platform and provide ample resource for additional pipeline expansion which remains the core focus for AbbVie. The combination of AbbVie and Allergan will also unlock significant value for our shareholders as we've outlined. The transaction delivers immediate robust financial benefits with EPS accretion of 10% in the first full year of combination increasing to above 20% at peak. This is inclusive of more than $2 billion in annual pre-tax synergies and cost savings which is expected in the third year post-closing. This combination also provides significant additional earnings in the period following the loss of HUMIRA exclusivity. And the transaction provides enhanced cash flow to support a strong and growing dividend while rapidly paying down debt and continuing to invest in our innovative pipeline through increased R&D funding and the acquisition of mid to late-stage assets. And finally, we're actively seeking the relevant approvals for the transaction and are working towards our stated goal for closing in the first quarter of 2020. In summary, we're extremely pleased with our outperformance in the quarter and with the continued strong momentum of our business leading to another increase in our expectations for 2019. Since 2013, we have built a strong foundation through outstanding execution and the advancement of our robust pipeline of new innovative medicines. Looking back, we have delivered 16 quarters of double-digit earnings growth and have consistently been among the peer group leaders for revenue and EPS growth. We've launched 13 new products for major indications which have and will continue to contribute considerably to our growth. While this level of consistent performance is truly exceptional, especially given the challenges which inevitably arise in a large complex business like ours the key to long-term sustainable strong performance has always been forward planning. And Allergan represents another example of our proactive planning to ensure we will continue to deliver top-tier performance into the next decade. Our strong track record of execution combined with the momentum of our business gives us tremendous confidence in our ability to continue to successfully execute on our long-term strategy and deliver outstanding shareholder value going forward. With that I'll turn the call over to Mike for additional comments on our R&D programs. Mike?

Severino: Thank you, Rick. We had another productive quarter with continued progress across all stages of our pipeline. In the area of hematologic oncology, we received FDA approval in May for VENCLEXTA in combination with GAZYVA for previously untreated patients with CLL. This marks another major milestone for the VENCLEXTA program and illustrates its growing utility across CLL patient populations. The frontline CLL indication is the fourth approval for VENCLEXTA and was based on data from the Phase 3 CLL14 study which were reviewed under the FDA's Real-Time Oncology Review program and led to approval in just over two months following submission. The CLL14 data demonstrated that VENCLEXTA plus GAZYVA significantly prolonged progression-free survival in patients with previously untreated CLL compared to a combination of GAZYVA plus chlorambucil reducing the risk of disease progression or death by 67%. The VENCLEXTA combination also achieved significantly higher rates of complete response and minimal residual disease negativity versus the comparator regimen. At the recent EHA meeting, we presented detailed results from the BELLINI study, evaluating VENCLEXTA in combination with Velcade and dexamethasone in patients with relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma. In a subpopulation of patients with a t (11;14) translocation treatment with the VENCLEXTA combination resulted in an observed 89% reduction in the risk of disease progression or death. Following consultation with the FDA, we recently resumed the CANOVA study, our registration-enabling trial in this biomarker-defined patient population. Based on the data generated today, we believe there is a role for VENCLEXTA in this patient group, which represents roughly 20% of the multiple myeloma population. We expect data from the Phase 3 CANOVA trial in the 2021 time frame. Moving now to IMBRUVICA, where we continue to build the body of evidence supporting IMBRUVICA across various patient segments in CLL as well as in other blood cancers. Results from the CLL12 study a placebo-controlled Phase 3 trial designed to evaluate IMBRUVICA versus no treatment in the asymptomatic watch-and-wait population were presented at the recent EHA meeting. In this early CLL population, current standard of care has been observation rather than therapeutic intervention. However, we believe there are patients with high-risk features within this segment who may benefit from treatment with IMBRUVICA. Data from the CLL12 trial showed that treatment with IMBRUVICA significantly improved event-free survival, progression-free survival and time to next treatment in patients with treatment-naive early-stage CLL when compared to placebo. Importantly, safety results from the study demonstrated that most adverse events were seen at similar rates between IMBRUVICA and placebo with the exception of atrial fibrillation, bleeding and hypertensive disorders, which we believe to be on-target BTK effects. We are encouraged with this data as they further illustrate IMBRUVICA's potential in patients who typically don't receive treatment today. In the area of solid tumors, we recently completed the Phase 3 study evaluating veliparib in BRCA-mutated breast cancer as well as the Phase 3 study in ovarian cancer, which is being run in collaboration with the gynecologic oncology group. In both studies, veliparib achieved the primary endpoint of progression-free survival and safety was consistent with that observed in the previously reported studies. We are continuing to analyze the data from these two studies and plan to discuss the findings with regulators to determine if they are sufficient for registration. Detailed results from both studies will be presented at an upcoming medical meeting. Now moving to immunology. We continue to make great progress with our two late-stage assets SKYRIZI and upadacitinib as well as with our early-stage immunology assets. Early in the second quarter, we received U.S. and European approvals for SKYRIZI in psoriasis and we anticipate an FDA decision in the coming weeks for upadacitinib in its initial indication of rheumatoid arthritis. We believe both of our next-generation therapies have proven to be differentiated assets in their respective initial indications and have the potential to be best-in-category medicines across more than a dozen diseases. We expect data readouts from several follow-on indications over the next 12 months to 18 months and we look forward to providing updates as these programs progress. And while we believe SKYRIZI and upadacitinib will set new standards across a broad range of indications, we believe we can push the standard of care even higher with our early-stage programs which include ABBV-599 our JAK-BTK inhibitor combination in Phase 2 for RA with proof-of-concept data expected last year and beginning Phase 2 in lupus later this year; ABBV-323 our CD40 antagonist in Phase 2 for ulcerative colitis with proof-of-concept data expected next year and beginning Phase 2 in Sjogren's syndrome later this year; and our TNF steroid conjugate program where early clinical work is ongoing and proof-of-concept data are expected next year as well. In the area of women's health, we expect to submit our regulatory application for elagolix in uterine fibroids in the coming days. Many women with uterine fibroids suffer from heavy menstrual bleeding and painful periods and elagolix has demonstrated the potential to become an important new treatment option for the large number of women suffering from this disease. This regulatory submission will mark another major milestone in our elagolix development program, and we look forward to bringing this innovative new medicine to the market once approved next year. And lastly, a few updates in the areas of -- in the area of neuroscience. We recently made the decision to stop the Phase 2 study for ABBV-8E12 in Progressive Supranuclear Palsy or PSP following a futility analysis showing that AB 12 did not demonstrate the efficacy we had hoped for in PSP patients. Alzheimer's disease and PSP differ in a number of important ways including the genetic background in which they occur and the distribution and potentially the nature of TAL pathology. Therefore, the ongoing Phase II study in Alzheimer's disease will continue as planned. Also in the quarter, we began the Phase III program to support the registration of ABBV-951, our innovative subcutaneous Levodopa/Carbidopa delivery system. In summary, we've seen tremendous progress across all stages of our pipeline in the first half of the year and we remain on track for further advancements in the remainder of 2019. With that, I'll turn the call over to Rob for additional comments on our second quarter performance. Rob?

Michael: Thanks Mike. As Rick mentioned, we had another quarter of strong performance. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $2.26, reflecting growth of 13% compared to prior year and $0.05 above our guidance midpoint. For the second quarter, net revenues were up 1.5% on an operational basis, excluding a 1.5% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. Strong growth from several key products offset the impact of international biosimilar competition. U.S. HUMIRA sales were $3.8 billion, up 7.7% compared to prior year with volume growth of approximately 7% and a modest positive price impact. Wholesaler inventory levels remained below 0.5 month in the quarter. International HUMIRA sales were approximately $1.1 billion, down 31% operationally, reflecting biosimilar competition across Europe and other international markets and in line with our expectations. As Rick previously mentioned, we are extremely pleased with the performance of SKYRIZI, with sales of $48 million in the quarter. Hematologic oncology global sales were nearly $1.3 billion, up 39.1% on an operational basis, driven by the continued strong growth of both IMBRUVICA and VENCLEXTA. IMBRUVICA global net revenues were $1.1 billion, primarily driven by continued uptake in the frontline CLL segment. In CLL, IMBRUVICA remains the market leader across all lines of therapy with new patient share of approximately 35% in the frontline setting. VENCLEXTA revenues were $169 million, driven by continued progress in the broad relapsed refractory CLL segment and our recent approval is for frontline CLL and AML. We've seen market share gains across all approved indications including AML, where the launch is exceeding our expectations. Global HCV revenues were $784 million in the quarter, down approximately 17% on an operational basis, mainly driven by lower treated patient volumes in select international markets. We also saw continued strong operational sales growth for both Duodopa and Creon. Turning now to the P&L profile for the second quarter. Adjusted gross margin was 82.7% of sales, up 220 basis points compared to the prior year including a 290 basis point benefit related to expiration of HUMIRA royalties, partially offset by the impact of partnership accounting. Adjusted R&D investment was 14.9% of sales supporting our pipeline programs on oncology, immunology and other areas. Adjusted SG&A expense was 19.6% of sales, consistent with our expectations. The adjusted operating margin ratio was 48.2% of sales, an improvement of 290 basis points versus the prior year. Adjusted net interest expense was $302 million and the adjusted tax rate was 8.7%. In the quarter, we recorded a specified charge of $1.55 per share for the contingent consideration increase related to SKYRIZI future milestone and royalty payments. This non-cash charge includes the impact of both a higher risk-adjusted cash flow forecast following the recent regulatory approvals for SKYRIZI as well as lower discount rates. As mentioned earlier, based on our strong performance year-to-date, we are raising our full year adjusted earnings per share guidance to between $8.82 to $8.92, reflecting growth of 12.1% at the midpoint. Excluded from this guidance is $3.13 of known intangible amortization and specified items. We are also increasing our revenue guidance for the full year and now expect growth of approximately 2% on an operational basis. At current rates, we continue to expect foreign exchange to have approximately 1% unfavorable impact on full year reported sales growth. Included in this guidance are the following assumptions for our key products. We now expect U.S. HUMIRA sales growth approaching 80%. We continue to see a robust volume growth and maintain a strong leadership position across all segments. For our hem/onc franchise, we now expect global revenues of approximately $5.3 billion. This includes IMBRUVICA global revenues of approximately $4.6 billion with U.S. sales growth of approximately 27%. For SKYRIZI, as Rick mentioned, we now expect global revenues of approximately $250 million. We're now forecasting global HCV sales approaching $3.1 billion, which we expect to be split evenly between U.S. and international. And for ORILISSA, we now forecast sales to be approximately $100 million. We are still in the early stage of market development. And while the launch ramp is slower than initially expected, we continue to believe ORILISSA will be a significant long-term opportunity for AbbVie. All other full year 2019 forecast assumptions for our key products remain unchanged. Turning now to the P&L for 2019. We now expect adjusted net interest expense of approximately $1.2 billion. All other full year 2019 guidance assumptions remain unchanged. As we look ahead to the third quarter, we expect adjusted earnings per share between $2.28 and $2.30 excluding approximately $0.43 of non-cash amortization and other specified items. We anticipate third quarter adjusted revenue of approximately $8.4 billion. At current rates, we expect a modest unfavorable foreign exchange impact. For U.S. HUMIRA, we expect sales growth of approximately 8%. We expect international HUMIRA sales of approximately $1 billion, assuming current exchange rates. And for IMBRUVICA we expect global sales of approximately $1.2 billion. Moving now to the P&L for the third quarter, we are forecasting an adjusted operating margin ratio of approximately 48%, and we expect the adjusted tax rate to be in line with our full year guidance, which is just above our 2018 rate. In summary, AbbVie has delivered another excellent quarter with results well ahead of our expectations. We expect this momentum to continue in the second half of 2019 putting us in a strong position to once again deliver top-tier earnings growth.

Scala: Thank you. I have two questions. Rick in Q1 you warned us that SKYRIZI was unlikely to have meaningful sales in Q2 and today you delivered one of the biggest launch numbers in my memory. So what is going on? What has been better than expected? So that's the first question. And the second question is the fact that it appears there will not be upadacitinib AdCom, could be great news or a bit troubling. Great, if approval is going to be an FDA rubber stamp and troubling if it implies the FDA is unlikely to approve the drug on August 19. So any perspective on what's going on with the regulators would be helpful.

Jacob: Hi, Thanks for taking my questions. A couple if I may. Rick, wondering if you could comment on what the potential is for international reference pricing proposals that are potentially out there from -- perhaps coming from the Trump administration. If that's feasible in any way to be pushed over to Part D, obviously the focus has been Part B, but there's also been discussion that it could be pushed over to Part D. Is that feasible in any way in your mind? And then just on upa, all the data we've seen thus far looks incredibly differentiated versus the other JAKs in terms of safety, but wondering just from a regulatory standpoint, if the agency has a view around the class as a whole. Do they distinguish the JAKs as being different between each other? Certainly, the data would point to that from what we've seen, but wondering how your conversations with the regulators are going with regards to that, especially given the fact that literally just as we were speaking a few minutes ago the agency updated the XELJANZ label to include a black box warning for VTE DVT?

Gonzalez: Okay. Very good. So let me cover number one and -- the first question and I'll have Mike cover the second question. I think if you look at the international reference pricing that was being proposed in Part D, as you know, we obviously have a very small Part D business, so it doesn't have a significant impact for us. Whether or not, a structure like that or something similar to that could be moved over to D I think in a broad way that would require legislative action I believe based on the way the law is written today. But it doesn't mean that there couldn't be pilots or other kinds of methods to ultimately look at that. So it's -- I think it's difficult to predict what it would look like. I think the Senate proposal I think is a good start with some modifications. I think the Senate proposal could be modified in a way that it could solve many of the issues that are out there. And I think that one has a structure that then plays -- that could require some level of modification. But I think the framework around it is a good framework. And so I would hope that that would get some traction to move forward and be modified in the areas that I referenced before, potentially look at smoothing the out-of-pocket, potentially even look at maybe trying to take the out-of-pocket down a little bit further. And then relooking at the distribution across all of the different drugs that approaches through Part D all of the proprietary drugs and making sure that that distribution is appropriate across the full range of medicines that patients buy as Part D. It would be some fundamental modifications that I think could be looked at there. Mike?

Severino: Okay. I'll take the question on upadacitinib. So we feel very good about the performance of upadacitinib across its program, not only from an efficacy perspective, but from a benefit/risk perspective. With respect to the agency's view, I can't speak for the agency, but that generally will differ across different components of the program. Obviously, there's been a lot of -- there's been a lot of focus on the DVT and PE issue with baricitinib. And then, we just saw this morning that the FDA has announced that they've updated the label for tofacitinib to include a box warning around similar events. What we've said consistently is our program hasn't demonstrated that risk. So if we were to pick up labeling language like that or warnings around this issue, that would have to come from a determination from the FDA that they're going to move from some form of class labeling. And I'm not in a position to speak for them about that, certainly not today. Our review is ongoing so we will update on our label when we have more information.

Gonzalez: Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I'll discuss our fourth quarter and full year 2019 performance, as well as our 2020 expectations for AbbVie on a stand-alone basis. We will provide combined AbbVie and Allergan guidance after the close of the planned transaction. Mike will then provide an update on recent advancements across our R&D programs. And Rob will discuss last year's performance and our 2020 guidance in more detail. Following our remarks, we will take your questions. We delivered another strong quarter with adjusted earnings per share exceeding the midpoint of our guidance. Our adjusted EPS of $2.21 represents growth of more than 16% versus the fourth quarter of 2018. Total adjusted operational sales growth of 5.3% was also ahead of our expectations for the quarter driven by continued strong performance in both immunology and hematological oncology. Our performance this quarter tops off another strong year for AbbVie. For the full year 2019, we delivered adjusted earnings per share growth of 13%. We have driven strong commercial, operational and R&D execution, which has allowed us to substantially grow through the impact of international biosimilar competition. We saw excellent performance in our hematological oncology business, which drove operational growth of more than 39% in the year. We have built a substantial franchise with IMBRUVICA and VENCLEXTA, which combined nearly $5.5 billion in combined revenue with strong double-digit growth expected once again in 2020. IMBRUVICA remains the clear market share leader across all lines of therapy in CLL. With the largest body of clinical evidence, a robust survival benefit, and the highest category rating in treatment guidelines today, we remain confident that IMBRUVICA will be a significant growth contributor for many years to come. VENCLEXTA will also contribute substantially to our growth in 2020 with continued share expansion expected in both the broad relapsed/refractory and frontline CLL segments, as well as continued penetration in frontline AML. In our immunology business, the launches of SKYRIZI and RINVOQ are going exceptionally well. Both SKYRIZI and RINVOQ have demonstrated strong differentiated efficacy in their initial indications and we are making considerable progress to expand their uses in several additional immune-mediated diseases. SKYRIZI is already having an impact on AbbVie's growth with sales of approximately $215 million in the fourth quarter, which already equates to an annualized run rate approaching $900 million. And we expect robust growth in 2020. The launch execution has been nothing short of exceptional. In a very short timeframe SKYRIZI has established the leading in-play psoriasis patient share, which includes both new and switching patients at roughly 25%. SKYRIZI is redefining the standard for efficacy and safety in the psoriasis market, where it has not only demonstrated superiority to HUMIRA, the gold standard of care, but also outperformed other novel agents, including COSENTYX. SKYRIZI's commercial access is now at parity to HUMIRA and above 95%. While still early in the launch, we're also seeing robust demand trends for RINVOQ which is performing well ahead of comparable analogs in the RA segment. In the first full quarter, RINVOQ was on the market, we estimate more than 7,600 prescriptions were filled, including both paid prescriptions and those who received RINVOQ through our bridge access program. Based on this level of prescription volume, RINVOQ is currently capturing approximately 9% of in-play RA patients and has surpassed the in-play share for several other established brands. The cannibalization of HUMIRA market share in this segment remains very low thus far. Feedback from prescribing physicians has been very positive. And the strong benefit/risk profile RINVOQ has demonstrated across our registrational trials has supported very rapid and broad formulary coverage for RINVOQ. Commercial access for RINVOQ is now at more than 95% and we expect paid prescription volume to increase significantly throughout 2020 as a result. HUMIRA in the U.S. continues to generate strong revenue driving more than $1 billion of growth in 2019 and will remain a significant contributor to growth again in 2020. The international HUMIRA dynamics remain consistent with our expectations with 2019 revenues, down roughly 28% on an operational basis. Overall, I'm extremely pleased with the performance and the outlook for our immunology franchise. We had previously commented that SKYRIZI and RINVOQ would deliver more than $1 billion of revenue combined in 2020. Our 2020 guidance now contemplates that these two products will contribute approximately $1.7 billion in revenue together this year. Since our inception, we have focused on building a robust pipeline and added growth platforms that will allow AbbVie to absorb the eventual impact of biosimilar competition in the U.S. and maintain a strong and growing business. We continue to make excellent progress against that objective. As I just highlighted, the better-than-expected launch trajectories of SKYRIZI and RINVOQ and the continued strong performance of our hematological oncology franchise has further increased our level of confidence that these platforms will drive significant growth over the long-term. Our R&D productivity over the past seven years has resulted in numerous new products, which collectively contributed approximately $9 billion in revenue in 2019. And our R&D pipeline continues to develop nicely with multiple programs well underway to expand the breadth of indications for SKYRIZI and RINVOQ as well as the advancement of a significant number of early- and mid-stage programs six of which will have proof-of-concept data readouts in 2020. AbbVie's R&D pipeline has been phase-gated from the time we launched as an independent company back in 2013. Our initial priority was to develop next-generation assets that would be superior to HUMIRA and other competitive alternatives within our key immunology disease areas. And as you have seen SKYRIZI and RINVOQ have demonstrated that type of performance across multiple clinical trials. Their successful launch, trajectories demonstrate the value of these assets in two very large segments of immunology, which combined represent approximately 40% of U.S. HUMIRA revenues today. We continue to rapidly progress the development of these assets in the remaining key HUMIRA disease areas as well as new indications such as atopic dermatitis. Our second priority was to build our hematological oncology franchise into a major growth engine for the company. IMBRUVICA and VENCLEXTA have become roughly a $5.5 billion franchise and growing rapidly. And we continue to expand these medicines into important new disease areas such as multiple myeloma with VENCLEXTA in the t(11;14) biomarker-defined patient population; and combination therapy with IMBRUVICA and VENCLEXTA which have the potential to provide even deeper and more durable responses. The third priority was the development of a robust early- and mid-stage pipeline, which now has nearly 40 clinical programs ongoing including novel new mechanisms developed by AbbVie scientists as well as assets we are advancing across our many collaborations such as Calico. The most advanced programs in our mid- to late-stage pipeline which we expect to be approved by 2022 include navitoclax for myelofibrosis, ABBV-951 for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease and veliparib for the treatment of ovarian cancer and BRCA breast cancer. These approvals are on top of the numerous new opportunities expected for RINVOQ, SKYRIZI and VENCLEXTA. Over the same period of time, we anticipate approximately 30 proof-of-concept readouts from novel programs in our early-stage pipeline, which Mike will discuss momentarily. It is truly an exciting time for AbbVie science. Another exciting aspect of our business is the planned acquisition of Allergan, which has significant strategic and financial merit. Allergan will provide AbbVie with highly valuable on-market assets with leadership positions across additional attractive growth segments including new growth platforms in aesthetics and CNS/neuroscience. The acquisition will further diversify AbbVie's revenue and payer mix and immediately accelerates the stand-alone scale of our non-HUMIRA business the AbbVie growth platform, which is expected to drive high single-digit annual growth revenue over the next decade and beyond. The proposed acquisition is proceeding well. We recently received conditional approval from the European Commission. The FTC review continues to advance following the divestiture announcements of both Zenpep and Allergan's IL-23. And we have completed the integration planning process including confirmation of our synergy objectives. We remain on track for closing the Allergan transaction as expected in the first quarter of 2020. We've entered 2020 with very strong momentum and we're committed to delivering strong results which is reflected in our guidance. We expect full year 2020 adjusted earnings per share of $9.61 to $9.71 representing growth of 8.1% at the midpoint. As I mentioned earlier, this guidance reflects AbbVie on a stand-alone basis. We will provide pro forma guidance for 2020 following the close of the Allergan transaction. So in summary, as you can see from our 2019 results and our 2020 guidance, the performance of AbbVie's business remains very strong. Net performance combined with a late-stage pipeline which includes more than 20 new medicines in major new disease indications as well as a robust early-stage pipeline gives us significant confidence in the future outlook of our company. The AbbVie business will be even stronger and more diverse with the Allergan transaction. We look forward to another successful year and to welcoming our Allergan colleagues to the new AbbVie in the near future. With that, I'll turn the call over to Mike for additional comments on our R&D programs. Mike?

Severino: Thank you, Rick. When we set out as an independent company, we knew that building a productive R&D engine was an essential part of our success. And we're proud of the progress we've made over the past seven years. We've built one of the strongest late-stage pipelines in our industry and brought to market six new assets; RINVOQ, SKYRIZI, IMBRUVICA, VENCLEXTA, MAVYRET and ORILISSA, which collectively delivered approximately $9 billion in sales in 2019. These assets are performing very well in their lead indications and will drive significant growth for AbbVie over the long-term as we continue to build the body of evidence supporting their differentiated clinical profiles. In immunology, both RINVOQ and SKYRIZI are off to a very strong start in rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis respectively. And we continue to generate clinical data sets that set them apart from competitive offerings. For example we recently announced positive topline results from a Phase 3 head-to-head trial comparing SKYRIZI to COSENTYX in psoriasis. In this study, SKYRIZI demonstrated superiority to COSENTYX at week 52 with 87% of SKYRIZI patients achieving PASI 90 compared to 57% for COSENTYX. SKYRIZI also demonstrated superiority to COSENTYX on all ranked secondary end points including PASI 100, PASI 75, and sPGA clear or almost clear at week 52. These results underscore two critical components of SKYRIZI's profile; the ability to drive high levels of response and the durability of that response at long-term end points. In oncology, we will also continue to support our hem/onc franchise with important regulatory milestones and additional Phase 3 data readouts for our approved indications in 2020. We recently received a positive CHMP opinion for VENCLEXTA in previously untreated CLL. And we expect to receive an important label update for IMBRUVICA in the first half of this year based on results from ECOG study which demonstrated the superiority of IMBRUVICA to FCR in frontline fit patients with CLL. When we think about sources of growth beyond the current indications for our recently approved assets, it's important to consider two components of our late-stage pipeline. The first is a large number of programs that will allow us to drive our core assets into important new disease areas that represent large and attractive markets. And the second is a set of new assets that will help support additional growth in the future. If we look first at our opportunity to move into new disease areas with our existing therapies, we see a number of commercially attractive programs that have been de-risked based on strong data. For example we recently announced topline results from the second Phase 3 study for RINVOQ in psoriatic arthritis which compared RINVOQ to both placebo and HUMIRA in patients who had an inadequate response to at least one non-biologic DMARD. In this study, both doses of RINVOQ met all primary and key secondary end points, demonstrating a significant impact on both joint and skin end points as well as radiographic inhibition of damage to joint structure. RINVOQ also demonstrated superiority to HUMIRA on ACR20 response at week 12 with the high dose and non-inferiority with the low dose. These data followed the positive results from our first registrational trial reported late last year. Detailed data from both pivotal studies will be presented at an upcoming medical meeting and we expect to submit our regulatory applications for RINVOQ in psoriatic arthritis in the second quarter with commercialization expected in 2021. Following discussions with global regulators, our approval submissions in ankylosing spondylitis are planned for the second half of 2020 based on positive data already presented at ACR last November. In this study, RINVOQ demonstrated significantly greater improvements in signs and symptoms as well as physical function and imaging end points compared to placebo. Together, psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis make up an important segment of the rheumatology market with global market sales of approximately $14 billion. The dermatology segment will also be an important area of growth for RINVOQ. Moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis is a large market that we do not participate in today. And in the middle of this year, we expect to see Phase 3 data for RINVOQ in this indication. In our Phase 2b study, RINVOQ demonstrated a very strong effect on the easy composite end point and had a prominent impact on itch which is one of the most troublesome symptoms of this disease. Following the pivotal data readouts, we plan to submit global regulatory submissions later this year. We are also nearing completion of the registrational programs for SKYRIZI in several new disease areas. In the second half of this year, we expect to see data from Phase 3 studies in both psoriatic arthritis and Crohn's disease with regulatory submissions for both indications expected in 2021. The IBD segment, including both Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, represents a significant opportunity with global market sales of approximately $18 billion. IBD is a growing segment where there continues to be significant unmet need. And based on the efficacy demonstrated in our mid-stage studies, we believe both SKYRIZI and RINVOQ have the potential to drive higher levels of performance than other therapeutic alternatives. Together we expect SKYRIZI and RINVOQ to have full coverage across the major disease areas for which HUMIRA is currently approved plus new areas such as atopic dermatitis. With these two new medicines, AbbVie is well positioned to maintain its strong leadership in the $70 billion global immunology market. Another growth asset that we expect to expand into important new areas is VENCLEXTA. CANOVA our Phase 3 study in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma patients with the t(11;14) genetic mutation is now well underway. And towards the end of this year, we plan to initiate a second Phase 3 study in the relapsed/refractory t(11;14) population. 21:49: The level of efficacy that we've seen suggests that t(11;14) patients may be particularly responsive to VENCLEXTA. This biomarker-defined population makes up approximately 20% of the $18 billion multiple myeloma market representing an important new opportunity for VENCLEXTA. In addition to multiple myeloma, we will begin Phase 3 studies in two additional Bcl-2-driven diseases in 2020. The first is AML. Building on our experience in the transplant-ineligible population, we are initiating a study in fit patients with AML who have received stem cell transplant, but remain at high risk for recurrence. The second is higher-risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome or MDS. MDS is a malignant disease of bone marrow stem cells that is associated with significant morbidity and mortality due to the risk of bleeding, infection and transformation to acute leukemia. Some patients with MDS undergo stem cell transplant, but many cannot. And these patients have very few treatment options. Preclinical and early clinical studies support a role for Bcl-2 inhibition in these patients and our Phase 3 studies with VENCLEXTA will begin later this year. The second component of value in our late-stage pipeline includes important new therapies that we expect to launch in 2021 and 2022 including; navitoclax, veliparib and ABBV-951. Navitoclax will be entering Phase 3 studies in the first half of this year in frontline and second-line myelofibrosis. Myelofibrosis is a malignant disease in which the bone marrow is replaced with fibrotic tissue leading to bone marrow failure. Currently, JAK2 inhibition is the only approved therapeutic option, but despite treatment many patients progress and experience significant morbidity and mortality. Navitoclax is a first-in-class Bcl-xL inhibitor with the potential to transform the treatment of myelofibrosis by deleting the clone that causes the disease. At ASH last year, we presented encouraging data from a Phase II study which demonstrated that up to 43% of patients who had failed JAK2 inhibition responded to navitoclax based on a 35% reduction in spleen volume. In addition, responses deepened over time and we continue to follow these patients. Navitoclax treated patients also showed reductions in the number of malignant cells and decreases in bone marrow fibrosis supporting the potential for disease modification. In the area of solid tumors, we've previously presented positive Phase 3 data from two veliparib studies in frontline ovarian cancer and BRCA breast cancer. Data from these two studies demonstrated significant prolongation of progression-free survival and support the use of PARP inhibition in combination with chemotherapy earlier in the course of treatment. In ovarian cancer, veliparib will be the only PARP inhibitor to combine with frontline chemotherapy and treat a broader population that is not restricted to biomarker status or chemo responsiveness. In BRCA-positive breast cancer veliparib will also be the only PARP inhibitor to combine with platinum-based chemotherapy giving these patients a valuable new treatment option. Based on feedback from global regulatory authorities, we plan to submit our applications for veliparib in the first half of this year. Veliparib will be an important new treatment option for women with ovarian cancer and BRCA breast cancer offering the potential to provide better outcomes. And in our late-stage neuroscience pipeline, we are making good progress with the Phase 3 program for ABBV-951, our innovative approach to delivering DUOPA like efficacy through a subcutaneous delivery system for advanced Parkinson's disease. This approach is enabled by novel levodopa and carbidopa prodrugs and would be a transformative improvement to current treatment options. With a less invasive non-surgical delivery system 951 has the potential to significantly expand the patient population currently addressed by DUOPA or other more invasive therapies for advanced Parkinson's such as deep brain stimulation. We'll see data from the pivotal program in 2021 with commercialization anticipated in 2022. In addition to advancing, our late-stage programs we've also made tremendous progress building our early-stage pipeline. Following several years of investment, we're beginning to see these efforts pay-off. And over the next three years, we're planning for proof-of-concept data readouts in approximately 30 programs. Our early pipeline is designed to include a mix of highly novel targets supported by strong underlying science and clinically validated targets where we think an opportunity exists to improve on current agents. In the area of immunology, I'll highlight our TNF steroid conjugate ABBV-3373, which is novel technology that delivers a proprietary high-potency steroid directly to activated immune cells by TNF-mediated uptake. We've shown in model systems that this approach has the potential to drive transformational efficacy. And our early clinical work has demonstrated that we can deliver 3373 at its anticipated therapeutic dose without systemic steroid effects. We will see efficacy data from this study later this year. If our clinical data reproduce what we have seen pre-clinically, our steroid conjugate technology has the potential to serve as a platform across a wide range of diseases including RA, IBD and lupus. We will also see proof-of-concept data this year from several other early-stage assets in our immunology portfolio including data for ABBV-599 our JAK-BTK program; and ABBV-323 our CD40 antagonist program, which are both targeting multiple pathogenic nodes that are thought to play important roles in diseases such as RA, IBD, lupus and scleroderma, allowing us to restate standard of care in our core disease areas and move into new ones where no effective therapy exists today. In oncology, we are building on what we have learned with venetoclax and navitoclax to advance a number of promising apoptosis programs. The most advanced of these are ABBV-155, which uses a B7-H3-targeting antibody to deliver a novel high-potency Bcl-xL warhead to solid tumors; and ABBV-621, which is designed to induce apoptosis by clustering TRAIL, an apoptosis-inducing ligand on the surface of cancer cells. We will see monotherapy data for ABBV-155 in 2020 and combination data in 2021. We expect to see proof-of-concept data for ABBV-621 in 2021 as well. In immuno-oncology, we have a number of very promising T cell-redirecting bispecifics in the clinic and several more in preclinical development. The most advanced of these are BCMA bispecifics in multiple myeloma TNB-338B and HPN-217. These programs allow us to explore different epitope specificities and binding affinities to optimize benefit/risk of our candidates in this very promising area. We are also pursuing several novel approaches designed to modify the tumor immunosuppressive environment. Here I would highlight ABBV-151, our monoclonal antibody targeting GARP. Through its effect on GARP ABBV-151 reduces TGF-beta-mediated signaling within tumors. TGF-beta is thought to be an important driver of tumor immune evasion and TGF-beta signaling is correlated with a lack of tumor immune infiltrate and PD-1 unresponsiveness. In addition, I would highlight our CD39 inhibitor, TTX-030. Recently emerging data suggest that CD39 plays an important role in tumor immune evasion by converting pro-inflammatory ATP to anti-inflammatory ADP and adenosine in the extracellular environment. TTX-030 is designed to restore this important pro-inflammatory signal and reduce tumor immunosuppression. Lastly in our early neuroscience pipeline we have several promising disease-modifying candidates in the clinic for Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. In addition to our tau-directed programs we have programs aimed at important regulators of the neuroinflammatory response TREM2 and CD33; as well as a core driver of pathology in Parkinson's disease alpha-synuclein. So in summary, we've continued to see significant evolution of our early- and late-stage development programs. We have a late-stage pipeline that includes more than 20 programs in registrational studies and have nearly 40 programs in early- to mid-stage development that will mature over the next few years. With that I'll turn the call over to Rob for additional comments on our 2019 performance and our 2020 guidance. Rob?

Michael: Thank you, Mike. Today I'll review our performance for the fourth quarter and full year 2019 and then walk through our 2020 outlook. We had another year of strong execution. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $8.94 reflecting growth of 13% compared to prior year and beating our initial guidance midpoint by $0.24. For the full year, net revenues were $33.3 billion, up 2.7% on an operational basis excluding a 1.1% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. Strong growth from several key products and newly launched assets more than offset the impact of international biosimilar competition. For the fourth quarter, net revenues were $8.7 billion, up 5.3% on an operational basis excluding a 0.5% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. U.S. HUMIRA sales were $4 billion, up 9.8% compared to prior year, reflecting high single-digit volume growth plus price. Wholesaler inventory levels remained below 0.5 month in the quarter. Full year sales of HUMIRA in U.S. were $14.9 billion, up 8.6% versus prior year. International HUMIRA sales were approximately $950 million in the quarter, down 25.4% operationally reflecting biosimilar competition across Europe and other international markets and in line with our expectations. SKYRIZI continues to perform extremely well with global sales of $216 million in the quarter. RINVOQ is also demonstrating strong uptake with sales of $33 million in the first full quarter following the U.S. launch in late August. For the full year, the combined revenues of SKYRIZI and RINVOQ were $402 million and above our initial expectations. Hematologic oncology global sales were more than $1.5 billion in the quarter, up 37.2% on an operational basis, driven by the continued strong performance of both IMBRUVICA and VENCLEXTA. IMBRUVICA global net revenues were approximately $1.3 billion in the quarter, up 28.9%, driven by strong share in all lines of therapy in CLL. VENCLEXTA revenues were $251 million in the quarter, driven by continued share gains across all approved indications. For the full year, our hem/onc global revenues were $5.5 billion, up 39.3% on an operational basis. Global HCV sales were $632 million in the quarter. For the full year, HCV sales were $2.9 billion, down 17.7% on an operational basis, driven by lower treated patient volumes in select international markets and increased competition within the U.S. managed Medicaid segment. We also saw continued strong operational sales growth for Creon and Duodopa. Turning now to the P&L profile for the fourth quarter. Adjusted gross margin was 81.6% of sales, up 180 basis points compared to the prior year including the year-over-year benefit related to the expiration of HUMIRA royalties. Adjusted R&D investment was 15.3% of sales supporting our pipeline programs in oncology, immunology, and other areas. Adjusted SG&A expense was 21.6% of sales, reflecting continued investment in our on-market products and newly launched assets. The adjusted operating margin ratio was 44.6% of sales, an improvement of 290 basis points versus the prior year. Adjusted net interest expense was $282 million and the adjusted tax rate was 8.8%. Fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share excluding specified items was $2.21, up 16.3% versus prior year. As we look ahead to 2020, our full year adjusted earnings per share guidance is between $9.61 to $9.71, reflecting growth of 8.1% at the midpoint. Excluded from this guidance is $1.95 of known intangible amortization and specified items. On the topline in 2020, we expect revenue growth approaching 8% on an operational basis. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a minimal impact on reported sales growth. This forecast comprehends the following assumptions for our key products. In 2020, we expect U.S. HUMIRA to deliver revenue growth of approximately 9%. We expect international HUMIRA to approach $3.4 billion at current exchange rates. As Rick noted, we expect global sales of our newly launched immunology products to reach approximately $1.7 billion in 2020. This includes SKYRIZI global revenues of approximately $1.2 billion and RINVOQ global revenues of approximately $500 million. We expect our hem/onc franchise to grow 24% on an operational basis, with IMBRUVICA global revenues of approximately $5.5 billion and VENCLEXTA global sales of approximately $1.3 billion. We expect HCV global sales of approximately $2.5 billion. For Creon, we expect revenue growth of approximately 10%. For Duodopa, we expect sales of approximately $500 million. For Lupron, Synthroid, and Synagis, we expect sales to be roughly flat year-over-year. And we expect approximately $200 million in combined revenue from ORILISSA in endometriosis and Elagolix in uterine fibroids. Looking at the P&L for 2020, we are forecasting adjusted gross margin of approximately 81.5% of sales. We are forecasting adjusted R&D expense just above 14% of sales, reflecting continued investment across all stages of our pipeline. We are forecasting adjusted SG&A expense to be just above 19% of sales including funding to maximize the sales potential of new products. We are forecasting an adjusted operating margin ratio of approximately 48% of sales, an improvement of roughly 70 basis points versus 2019. We expect adjusted net interest expense of approximately $1.2 billion and we model a non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 10%. Finally, our share count for 2020 will be roughly flat. Regarding our first quarter outlook, we expect adjusted earnings per share between $2.28 and $2.30 excluding approximately $0.53 of known intangible amortization and specified items. We anticipate first quarter operational sales growth of approximately 7%. At current rates, we expect a modest unfavorable foreign exchange impact. For U.S. HUMIRA, we expect sales of approximately $3.5 billion. We expect international HUMIRA sales of approximately $900 million assuming current exchange rates. For SKYRIZI, we expect global sales of approximately $250 million. And for IMBRUVICA, we expect global sales approaching $1.2 billion. Moving now to the P&L for the first quarter, we are forecasting an adjusted operating margin ratio of approximately 48.5% of sales. As a reminder, the 2020 guidance provided today reflects AbbVie on a standalone basis. We will provide combined AbbVie and Allergan guidance after the close of the transaction. In closing, AbbVie has once again delivered outstanding results. And with our strong track record combined with the momentum of our business we are well positioned for strong growth in 2020.

Porges: Thank you very much for the question and congratulations on the quarter. Rick I just wanted to ask you it's been a while since you gave the kind of initial overview of the basis for the Allergan transaction. Could you talk about how the business performance of AbbVie and frankly also Allergan has been trending compared to the assumptions that you had going into the transaction? And then as you get close to closing how confident are you about the $2 billion in synergies? And how soon might they be realized?

I wouldn't say it's the most significant component but it is one component: to better educate women on what this therapy is all about, what the side-effect profile of this therapy really looks like, the safety profile of it; and make sure that we do that in a way that it's easily accessible for women in that age group, meaning it has a social media aspect to it that allows them to be able to access accurate information about ORILISSA and the benefits of it and the appropriate use of it. And so that is part of the changes that we made in the fourth quarter. And we're just going to have to see how those changes – the impact those changes have over time.

Gonzalez: Thank you, Liz. Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us. I'd like to start my remarks by acknowledging the tragic nature of the COVID-19 crisis, which has touched all elements of our -- in our lives in ways we never thought possible. The human toll that this pandemic has inflicted is unprecedented and the suffering unimaginable. During this very challenging time, I want to assure you that across AbbVie we are working carefully to ensure that our business continues to operate properly, our employees remain safe, our patients continue to receive their medicines and we are providing aid including product donations and financial assistance to address some of the critical needs of health care systems and underserved communities across the globe. As a matter of priority, we continue to closely manage manufacturing and supply chain resources around the world to ensure that our patients receive an uninterrupted supply of their medicines. Our manufacturing sites remain operational. And we have implemented additional measures at these facilities to ensure the safety of our employees and to protect our supply of API and finish medicines. We have adequate supplies in inventory to meet the expected demand for all AbbVie key medicines including KALETRA and NIMBEX, two therapies that have experienced a significant increase in demand directly related to COVID patient treatment. And we currently do not anticipate any product supply issues. AbbVie is also committed to supporting clinical research efforts for COVID-19. We have provided product donations to many health authorities and institutions globally so that AbbVie products may be further evaluated externally as potential treatments for this difficult disease. In times of crisis, it is our nature as individuals and our culture as a company to give back in any way we can. We recently announced that AbbVie has donated $35 million to help meet some of the critical needs around the world. We've partnered with several non-for-profit organizations who are on the front lines of the battle against COVID-19. And our donations have helped to support several important initiatives including the creation and operation of 20 mobile field hospitals in U.S. cities most impacted by the pandemic; the procurement and delivery of oxygen concentrators ventilators and personal protective equipment to health care systems in Europe; and various other essential programs including a donation to Feeding America to provide food and household supplies for those most in need including the elderly. We have donated a significant portion of AbbVie's own personal protective equipment supplies including N95 and surgical masks to hospitals near our facilities throughout the U.S. and Europe. We have also converted some of our own facilities including a pilot plant and several research laboratories to manufacture culture media and provide COVID-19 patient testing to supplement several public health departments. We are honored and committed to do what is in our power to help with this devastating pandemic and we will continue to look for ways where we are able to help. Now turning back to our business. I want to further discuss how the crisis is impacting our performance and expectations for the full year 2020. Today, I'm pleased to report strong results. For the first quarter, AbbVie's total revenues were up more than 10.5% on an operational basis and adjusted earnings per share of $2.42 was up more than 13% versus the prior year. These metrics were significantly above consensus and our initial expectations. Fortunately, we had very robust demand across our product portfolio heading into the COVID crisis. As the U.S. and other major countries around the world started implementing stay-at-home orders and social distancing strategies in late February, AbbVie as well as most of our customers started restricting face-to-face interactions resulting in reduced physician and patient contacts. These limitations which are still in effect for most major countries created two fundamental impacts on our business in the quarter. First, patients and pharmacies built up some additional inventory of our medicines to ensure they had adequate supply. And second, we saw fewer new patients visiting physician's offices, which had a modest impact on the number of new patient starts. Adjusting for COVID inventory dynamics, AbbVie's first quarter underlying operational sales growth was roughly 8.3%, significantly above expectations with double-digit underlying performance in both hem/onc and immunology, demonstrating the strong underlying performance of our business. Within hem/onc IMBRUVICA the market-leading treatment for CLL grew strong double-digits, driven by increased demand in the frontline setting where we recently received another important label update which Mike will discuss momentarily. VENCLEXTA also performed very well in the quarter with global revenues of $300 million, roughly double the first quarter of last year, following share expansion in both CLL and AML. Turning to our immunology business. HUMIRA continues to generate significant revenue. HUMIRA benefits from a substantial installed patient base, representing more than 80% of current demand. Globally, HUMIRA revenues were up nearly 6.5% on an operational basis in the quarter including strong double-digit growth in the U.S. The international biosimilar trends and dynamics remain largely consistent with our expectations. SKYRIZI Global revenues of $300 million were also significantly above expectations. Since the launch late last April, we have quickly established and expanded our leading in-play psoriasis patient share, which includes both new and switching patients and now exceeds 30%. This launch trend is truly remarkable and a testament to SKYRIZI's strong efficacy compared to other novel agents in the psoriasis category including HUMIRA and COSENTYX. RINVOQ is also performing at a very high level in the RA segment with global revenues of $86 million in the quarter. We estimate more than 17,500 prescriptions were filled including both paid and bridge, which is more than double the activity we saw in the prior quarter and now reflects approximately 11% in-play RA patient share. As demonstrated by our first quarter results, the underlying performance of our business remains very strong. We've now also begun to return to ordinary operations in select geographies around the world, where health authorities have deemed it safe to do so. And although early, we are seeing those countries ramp towards a normal operation and expected performance. This is obviously a challenging time to forecast, given the unique nature of the COVID pandemic including its global scope and unknown duration, and it is difficult to predict precisely when major countries around the world will return to normalcy. Despite this uncertainty, we believe it's important to provide a clear set of updated assumptions that reflect the latest view of our full year performance. We based our forecast on the best estimates we have at this time. And we will make updates if necessary on our next quarterly call. As I indicated earlier, our business was performing robustly, above expectations and above our guidance prior to the COVID-related impacts. We have spent considerable time, carefully evaluating the COVID dynamics from late March and April. Based on this analysis, COVID appears to be having two fundamental impacts on our business. First, there has been a variable impact on new patient starts due to physician's offices restricting patients' visits and patients adhering to stay-at-home orders. As an example, many dermatology offices are currently closed. AbbVie has a strong frontline position in dermatology with HUMIRA and SKYRIZI. And here we see new patient starts for these two brands were lower by approximately 30% to 40% over this time frame. Once these offices reopen, patient volume should return back to normalized levels. Second, we've also seen lower new patient utilization of hospital-based treatments, such as VENCLEXTA and HCV internationally, due to many hospitals limiting access to non-emergency, non-COVID patients. We have carefully modeled these COVID-related dynamics and incorporated the expected impact on our full year results.

Our current forecast now assumes the following: Stay-at-home orders will be gradually lifted starting in May across Europe and the United States. 60 days after geography lifts stay-at-home orders, we expect physician offices and hospitals will reopen for more routine patient diagnosis and care and we expect patients will start returning to physicians' offices for routine treatment in that time frame. We have also factored in a modest increase to our patient assistance programs as well as a shift in our U.S. payer mix due to increased unemployment. Based on these specific assumptions, we are confident we can maintain our current full year 2020 adjusted earnings per share guidance. We will learn more as the second quarter progresses and we will continuously evaluate our current assumptions relative to how the environment evolves and the updates will be provided on our next quarterly call. On a related note, while we have not yet completed the Allergan transaction we have also been actively working to assess the impact of the COVID crisis on the Allergan business. It's important to highlight that Allergan has both a therapeutic business which is similar to the AbbVie business and represents approximately two-thirds of their revenues and profits; and an aesthetics business which represents roughly one-third of their revenues and profits. Based on the differences in the nature of these two portfolios, we expect them to be impacted differently as a result of the COVID pandemic. We expect Allergan's therapeutic business except for BOTOX Therapeutics to be impacted and recover from the COVID crisis in a manner very similar to the AbbVie business I outlined earlier. We expect BOTOX Therapeutics, which has a substantial hospital base to experience a more significant impact given that patients are being discouraged from going into the hospital for non-emergency procedures during the pandemic as I mentioned earlier. We also expect to see a more pronounced impact on Allergan's aesthetics business as many of their customers including plastic surgeons med spas and dermatology offices are closed and therefore not performing procedures. However, after carefully analyzing the aesthetics business performance during the 2008-2009 recession, which experienced a rapid V-shape recovery, the recent trends we are observing in China as clinics have reopened locally and procedures have started to ramp significantly and taking into account the household income and employment status of the aesthetics patient base, we remain confident that the expected near-term impact while likely substantial will be transient with the aesthetics business quickly ramping back to normalized trends following the relaxation of quarantine restrictions in the U.S. and major European markets. As it relates to the closing of the Allergan transaction, we have completed all requirements with the FTC and they are in the final stages of their review process. Following the FTC process, the last step is the Irish High Court approval. Based on everything we know today, we continue to expect the transaction should close in May. We remain confident that the AbbVie-Allergan combination will generate significant cash flows which will support our strong and growing dividend and rapid debt repayment and we remain highly committed to both of those priorities. So, in summary, we reported a very strong first quarter performance. The COVID crisis is truly unprecedented and we expect it will have a transient impact on our business, primarily affecting our second quarter performance. However, based on our analysis of the situation as well as reasonable timing assumptions for the return to a more normalized environment, we are confident in maintaining our full year adjusted earnings guidance which speaks volumes about the strength of AbbVie's business momentum entering the COVID crisis. With that, I'll turn the call over to Mike for some additional comments. Mike?

Severino: Thank you, Rick. Let me begin by echoing Rick's sentiment about how proud I am of our colleagues as our teams work to ensure our business continues with minimal disruption and our patients receive their essential medicines. The entire organization including our colleagues deemed on-site essential who continue to come into work every day and the individuals who have effectively adapted to working remotely have demonstrated resiliency, dedication, and compassion throughout this time of crisis. It's a testament to the culture we've built at AbbVie. Today, I'll focus my commentary on the ongoing efforts within AbbVie's R&D organization, to address COVID-19, and provide updates regarding our key development programs. As a leading global biopharmaceutical company, AbbVie is committed to supporting relief efforts for the coronavirus pandemic. In addition to the efforts highlighted by Rick, we have deployed our scientific and medical resources to help fight COVID-19 on several fronts. There is an urgent need to increase testing capacity within the United States. Public health authorities are actively working to address the issues that have limited capacity to-date including instrument availability, availability of diagnostic kits and reagents, and CLIA-certified lab capacity. Given the unprecedented nature of this pandemic and the need to significantly increase access to testing, AbbVie is working with health authorities here in Illinois, where we are headquartered and in Ludwigshafen in Germany, where we operate a major site, to create a clinical COVID testing capability. This will allow us to use our laboratory expertise to expand the COVID-19 testing capacity in both jurisdictions. We have also used our GMP capabilities to manufacture viral transport medium, which is necessary to preserve swabs prior to lab testing for the Illinois Department of Health and a number of academic medical centers. Like many companies in our industry, we recognize the extreme burden being placed on our hospitals, public health systems and medical professionals by this crisis. And in response, we have created programs to allow our employees, who have relevant medical, scientific or public health expertise to volunteer to support the fight against this pandemic. AbbVie has tremendous resources and we are doing everything we can to make these resources available in the fight against COVID-19. In addition to the efforts, I just described, our R&D team is looking at our existing medicines and pipeline assets to assess their potential for the treatment of COVID-19. AbbVie is collaborating with health authorities and academic institutions globally to support clinical trials of KALETRA, a protease inhibitor approved for the treatment of HIV infection to determine whether it has potential use in COVID-19. Two notable ongoing trials are the solidarity study being run by the World Health Organization and the discovery study being led by a consortium in France. We expect to see data from these studies very soon and we'll continue to monitor and update as information becomes available. We have also initiated a Phase II study of IMBRUVICA in patients with COVID-19 infection. The goal of this study is to determine whether IMBRUVICA is able to improve outcomes by blunting the overly exuberant immune response often referred to as the cytokine storm that contributes to the morbidity and mortality in COVID-19. Lastly, we are also collaborating with a number of groups to screen our internal libraries for compounds with activity against COVID-19. Clearly, this is a rapidly evolving situation and we will provide updates as additional information becomes available. Turning now to an update on the status of our clinical development programs. Our top priorities in the R&D organization are ensuring the safety of patients, investigators and our employees around the world maintaining the integrity of our clinical studies and continuing to advance our pipeline. We are carefully monitoring the situation and taking appropriate precautions to protect the safety of our study participants, clinical site staff and our employees. We understand that health care systems are under extreme pressure because of the need to respond to the COVID-19 pandemic. In many instances, hospital-based research staff have been redeployed to other duties and aren't available to address clinical trial-related matters. AbbVie is doing everything possible to avoid creating an additional burden to our clinical trial sites. Given the current environment, we have delayed on-site start-up activities for new clinical studies. Start-up activities that can be performed remotely will continue and we will resume on-site activities and new study initiations on a case-by-case basis as local conditions allow. We also paused screening of new patient recruitment for a small minority of non-critical ongoing studies representing approximately 15% of our clinical trials, but are already in the process of reactivating screening in some of these studies again as local conditions allow. The remainder of our studies continue to enroll, although we have seen decreased screening rates in the short term as would be expected in the current environment. At this time, we expect limited impact to clinical trials that are already fully enrolled. Across our portfolio, we've implemented measures to ensure study continuity and minimize delays. These include actions such as shipping study drug directly to patients to avoid unnecessary study visits; conducting virtual study visits and remote data collection wherever possible; and shifting enrollment to geographies and clinical centers that are either less impacted or are already entering recovery. Based on these efforts, we currently expect minimal impact to the overall timing of our critical programs and to our key regulatory submissions. In immunology, we expect limited impact to the programs for RINVOQ and SKYRIZI in new disease areas. We are on track to submit our regulatory applications for RINVOQ in psoriatic arthritis in the second quarter and our filings for atopic dermatitis and ankylosing spondylitis are planned for the second half of this year. The data from our Phase 3 studies evaluating RINVOQ in atopic dermatitis are also expected in the middle of the year. The programs for SKYRIZI in new disease areas are also advancing very well. We continue to expect to see data from Phase 3 studies in both psoriatic arthritis and Crohn's disease in the second half of the year, with regulatory submissions for both indications expected in 2021. We continue to make good progress with our early-stage immunology pipeline as well and we expect to be able to share results from the proof-of-concept study, evaluating our novel TNF steroid conjugate in RA patients very soon. We recently completed the Phase 2 proof-of-concept study evaluating ABBV-599 in RA patients, where our JAK-BTK inhibitor combination demonstrated superior efficacy compared to placebo, but the efficacy results did not prove differentiated from monotherapy with RINVOQ. Based on these results, we are discontinuing development of ABBV-599 in rheumatoid arthritis. We plan to continue development in other autoimmune diseases where there is a greater B-cell contribution, such as lupus and systemic sclerosis in which dual JAK-BTK inhibition could provide superior benefit over current standard of care. In the area of oncology, we continue to make good progress with our hem/onc programs where we achieved several important milestones in the first part of the year. We recently received a label update for IMBRUVICA based on results from the E1912 study, which demonstrated the superiority of IMBRUVICA to FCR in frontline fit patients with CLL. For patients who could tolerate it the FCR regimen had been considered the gold standard for efficacy in frontline treatment for more than a decade. Demonstrating a strong progression-free survival benefit over FCR and incorporating these data into the label is another important addition to the breadth of data supporting IMBRUVICA use in frontline CLL. Continuing with our hem/onc programs, we recently announced positive top line results for VENCLEXTA in the Phase 3 VIALE-A study in AML. In this study, VENCLEXTA, in combination with azacitidine, demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in overall survival and in composite complete remission rate versus azacitidine alone in patients with previously untreated AML, who are ineligible for intensive chemotherapy. The VIALE-A study was stopped early due to positive efficacy results at the first interim analysis of overall survival, demonstrating VENCLEXTA's clinical benefit to these patients, for whom there are a few treatment options. We also announced the results from a second smaller Phase 3 study in frontline ineligible AML patients, the VIALE-C trial, which evaluated VENCLEXTA in combination with low-dose cytarabine. While the study did not meet its primary endpoint of overall survival, treatment with the VENCLEXTA combination showed an observed 25% reduction in the risk of death compared to low-dose cytarabine alone. We believe that the failure to hit statistical significance on the survival endpoint in this trial was due to limitations on the sample size of the study. With an additional six months of follow-up in the VIALE-C study, the VENCLEXTA combination demonstrated a median overall survival of 8.4 months, compared to 4.1 months for low-dose cytarabine alone, with a hazard ratio of 0.7 and a nominal p-value of 0.04. All secondary endpoints were in favor of the VENCLEXTA combination as well, including higher rates of response, earlier remissions increased transfusion independence and longer event-free survival. The data from both Phase 3 studies in AML will be submitted to the FDA and global health authorities in the coming months with regulatory approvals beginning later this year or early next year. We also remain on track to start several additional Phase 3 studies in Bcl-2 driven diseases later this year, including VENCLEXTA in fit patients with AML and in high-risk Myelodysplastic Syndrome, as well as navitoclax in frontline and second-line myelofibrosis. So in summary, we've continued to make good progress with our development programs, despite the challenges associated with the coronavirus pandemic. Once the situation is stabilized, we will work to restart paused clinical studies and evaluate the impact to our portfolio. But at this point, we do not expect the global pandemic to have long-term or significant impacts on our R&D programs. Our pipeline remains very robust and we expect many important milestones over the course of the next several years, which will support AbbVie's strong growth over the long term. With that, I'll turn the call over to Rob for additional comments on our first quarter performance. Rob?

Michael: Thank you, Mike. Starting with our first quarter results, we delivered strong top and bottom line performance. Total net revenues were $8.6 billion, up 10.7% on an operational basis, excluding a 0.6% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. These results include approximately $190 million of inventory stocking related to the COVID-19 pandemic. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $2.42, reflecting growth of 13.1% compared to prior year and above our guidance midpoint by $0.13, including $0.04 from underlying business strength and $0.09 related to COVID-19 inventory stocking. Several key products contributed to growth in the first quarter. U.S. HUMIRA sales were $3.7 billion, up 13.7% compared to prior year, reflecting double-digit volume growth plus price. These results include approximately $65 million of COVID-19 inventory stocking. Internationally, HUMIRA sales were $1 billion, down 12.8% operationally, reflecting biosimilar competition across Europe and other international markets and ahead of our expectations. These results include approximately $35 million of COVID-19 inventory stocking. SKYRIZI is performing extremely well and above our expectations. Global sales were $300 million with U.S. in-market -- in-play market share now exceeding 30%. We also continue to see robust demand for RINVOQ with sales of $86 million in the quarter. Hematologic oncology global sales were more than $1.5 billion, up 32.3% on an operational basis, driven by continued strong performance of both IMBRUVICA and VENCLEXTA. IMBRUVICA global net revenues were $1.2 billion, up 20.6% driven by strong share in all lines of therapy in CLL. These results include approximately $45 million of COVID-19 inventory stocking. VENCLEXTA revenues were $317 million, driven by continued share gains across all approved indications. Global HCV sales were $564 million, down 30.2% on an operational basis, driven by lower treated patient volumes in select international markets and increased competition within the U.S. Managed Medicaid segment. We also saw continued strong operational sales growth for Creon and Duodopa. Turning now to the P&L profile for the first quarter. Adjusted gross margin was 82.7% of sales ahead of our full year guidance due to sales mix and currency hedges in place. Adjusted R&D investment was 14.3% of sales, supporting our pipeline programs in oncology immunology and other areas. Adjusted SG&A expense was 18.6% of sales, reflecting continued investment in our on-market products and newly launched assets. The adjusted operating margin ratio was 49.8% of sales, an improvement of 170 basis points versus prior year, including a 70 basis point benefit from inventory stocking. Adjusted net interest expense was $284 million and the adjusted tax rate was 9.7%. As Rick previously discussed, we are closely monitoring the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Given the momentum of the business heading into the pandemic and our current assumptions regarding timing of the recovery, we remain confident in our previously communicated full year adjusted earnings per share guidance of between $9.61 to $9.71 for stand-alone AbbVie. Excluded from this guidance is $2.01 of known intangible amortization and specified items. This guidance now contemplates full year revenue growth of approximately 7% on an operational basis. At current rates, we now expect foreign exchange to have a 70 basis point unfavorable impact on full year reported sales growth. Included in this guidance are the following updated full year assumptions. We now expect U.S. HUMIRA sales growth of approximately 7%. For SKYRIZI, we now expect global revenues of approximately $1.4 billion. And for global HCV, we now expect sales of approximately $2.3 billion. Moving to the P&L. We now forecast adjusted gross margin approaching 82% of sales SG&A expense to be approximately 19% of sales and adjusted operating margin approaching 49% of sales, an improvement of 140 basis points versus 2019. All other full year 2020 guidance assumptions remain unchanged. As we look ahead to the second quarter, we anticipate adjusted revenue of approximately $8.1 billion for stand-alone AbbVie. This guidance assumes reversal of inventory stocking from the first quarter as well as slower new patient starts due to COVID-19. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have an 80 basis point unfavorable impact on reported sales growth. We are forecasting an adjusted operating margin ratio of approximately 47.5% of sales, including a reversal of the 70 basis point benefit from inventory stocking in the first quarter. We expect adjusted earnings per share between $2.10 and $2.16 excluding approximately $0.53 of known intangible amortization and specified items. AbbVie remains well positioned to execute on our capital allocation priorities. We generated $3.8 billion of operating cash flow in the first quarter. Our cash balance at the end of March was $41 billion, including funding designated for the Allergan acquisition. The robust cash flow generation of the combined company will be used to rapidly pay down debt, support a strong and growing dividend and pursue additional innovative mid to late-stage pipeline assets. We have committed to paying down $15 billion to $18 billion of combined company debt by the end of 2021 of which nearly $7 billion will be repaid by the end of May 2020. We expect to achieve a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 2.5 times by the end of 2021 with further deleveraging through 2023. In closing, AbbVie's performance and financial condition remains strong. Given the nature of the important therapies in our portfolio and the ongoing efforts of the people within our organization, our business is well positioned to navigate the current COVI

Divan: Great. Thanks so much for taking the questions and all the color that you've provided in your comments. And maybe just a couple if I could. One, you talked about the Allergan deal and obviously some of the assumptions there. I'm just thinking big picture -- and I guess this is for Rick just in terms of your -- kind of where you see the value of that deal. I know you -- obviously some of the assumptions in the near-term have changed and you mentioned the esthetics impact is probably more transient. But just to confirm for investors, do you see any changes over the longer term value of this transaction? We're obviously getting a lot of questions just given the nature of the esthetics business right now. And then second one on the dividend. You mentioned, obviously, your support for a strong and growing dividend. Is there also just any change as to how you think about dividend growth going forward given the current environment? Obviously you've still been growing but is there maybe growing at a lower rate, or any change at all there just – it would be great to clarify.

Gonzalez: Vamil this is Rick. I mean, I'll take those two questions. Let me do the second one, because it will be shorter first. So we don't see any changes in the assumptions we're making from the standpoint of the growth of the dividend based on everything that we have analyzed and I would say the robust performance of our business going into the COVID crisis and how we view the COVID crisis being a transient situation that, although difficult to predict exactly when all the geographies will reach some level of normalcy, we know that will occur at some point. And so we don't view any significant change there. On the value of the Allergan transaction, I would tell you that we don't see any change, fundamental change in the long-term value of the transaction. The benefits that we were trying to derive by acquiring the Allergan business are the same. And the long-term valuation I believe is the same. Now I think what some of the investors are probably concerned about is, obviously, the esthetics business is an important franchise as I indicated before represents about one-third of the revenues and about one-third of the profits. And it's an attractive franchise. And so I think the question that investors have, is how is it going to recover? And how long will it take to recover? And I think look those are reasonable questions. And as you can probably imagine, we have been doing a tremendous amount of work to try to evaluate not only the impact of COVID on our business, but also the impact of COVID on the Allergan business. And specifically I'd say, we've spent a considerable amount of time looking at the esthetics business. So I'm going to take a couple of minutes here and walk you through what that data looks like, so that you have a good perspective of at least the data that we're operating against to make the assumptions that we're making. Now what I am going to say is because of the Irish takeover code, we can't talk about the specific financials of Allergan until they are public and they're not public right now. So I'm not going to talk about their financial performance in any way. But I think, I can give you a pretty good characterization as to the work that we've done here and the conclusions that we've drawn. So I think if you step back and you look at the situation, it is clearly a situation, one, it's a complex situation. And two it's not a situation that any of us have ever experienced before meaning that this has both an economic disruption factor built in and it has a supply and demand disruption factor that's built in. We've certainly seen economic impacts on this business before and we know how it behaved in those circumstances. So as we try to approach understanding what the recovery will likely look like, we've essentially looked at four fundamental issues. Number one is, are there any analogs that would tell us what that recovery curve's going to look like? Number two, what is it going to be -- what is it going to take in order for the supply side? And when I say supply side what I mean is plastic surgeons, med spas, dermatology offices, which are the primary providers of those procedures. What is it going to take for the supply side to get back to where it was? And then number two -- or number three rather, what is going to be necessary on the demand side? And demand, I mean, consumer’s users of these procedures. And then finally, will there be a change in the situation from a competitive standpoint? Those are the four fundamentals that we looked at. We've looked at this both in conjunction with Allergan and we also have done an independent analysis with the same consulting firm that we used when we were considering acquiring the Allergan business. So we did two independent work streams to come to our conclusions. So let me start with the analogs. There are two right? There is the 2008, 2009 recession. And as I've said in my comments, there we saw a very sharp D-shaped recovery. And in fact the business recovered and actually grew faster on the other side of that The second analog is China. China has reopened most of its geographies not all, but most and they've been open for approximately seven or eight weeks now. If we look at the data from China what it says is 86% of the clinics have reopened. Patient traffic is back to about 55%. Volume is just under 50%, like 45% to 48%, slightly lower because those clinics are also burning off some of their inventory. So it doesn't outdate. So, I'd say the two analogs that we came up with looked pretty encouraging. Now let's look at the supply side. So, on the supply side, what we're trying to understand here is, what is the intent? And what is the preparation for these offices to reopen? And I think there's a couple of important facts here that help support and guide us to what that might look like. First the major medical societies like the plastic surgery society, the aesthetic society and others have now issued guidelines to these practices on the procedures that they should use to restart. And they include things like temperature checks, masks, gloves, face shields, lower densities in their offices. So why is that important? Well, why that's important is, this gives those offices a guideline as to how they should reopen. And probably more importantly, it gives them confidence on how they should reopen. Allergan has worked with their customers. A number of their customers, a large percentage of their customers requested the U.S. government stimulus funds. And so what we do know is that a significant portion of those practices should be in a position where financially they can reopen fairly quickly. And finally, Allergan has done a number of surveys with a large group of customers that show that the demand to reopen upon lifting of the stay-at-home orders and implementation of these patient safety guidelines is very high. And we anticipate that they will start reopening in May, and that's what our data told us, and the survey data told us. I'd say if anything, it seems to be moving faster than what we originally anticipated, because some states in the U.S. have opened up more quickly. So, then the next question is the demand side, what's that going to look like? And here I'd say, again, Allergan did some very good work. If you look at the brilliant distinctions database, which has about two million active members, represents about 70% of Allergan's users, it shows that 70% of the growing distinction consumers have household incomes of greater than $100,000, and 50% have incomes -- household incomes of greater than $150,000 a year, and it shows that 60% of those consumers work for corporations not small businesses. Allergan also conducted a recent user survey that had just under 450 consumers that they interviewed. And it showed that 80% of the consumers said that the COVID crisis would have no or little impact on their household incomes. 94% of those consumers said, they would reschedule an appointment for procedures in the next 90 days, and two-thirds of them said upon restrictions being lifted they with schedule an appointment in 30 days. So now you turn to the competitive environment. Allergan competes mostly against smaller less financially strong companies. I'd also say that, Allergan has done an excellent job. I give a tremendous amount of credit to Carrie Strom and Bill Meury. They responded quickly and aggressively to this crisis with their customers. They extended payment terms. They converted credits to checks to help with cash flow at these offices. They protected the customers' volume discounts. They facilitated online sales of Allergan skin medical products, again to get those offices some cash flow. And they changed the product return policy so the customers are protected from any product outdating. I'd also say from a competitive standpoint, Allergan didn't have any layoffs. They maintained or accelerated their R&D programs. And you have to remember Allergan has the largest commercial footprint by a significant margin compared to anyone else in this business. So what the data tells me is this, the analog show the business bounces back and it's resilient. The supply side should ramp quickly when the environment allows. Consumers have a strong desire to restart treatments, and they have the financial capacity to do so. And I think Allergan did a nice job of creating loyalty with these practices, and should come out of this in a very strong competitive position, maybe even stronger than they were before. The independent analysis that we did also surveyed customers and providers. And I would say, it looks very similar to what the Allergan analysis looks like. So, look, we can't predict is exactly how long it will take in every state and in every country around the world, but I think we can predict with a pretty high degree of certainty that the business will bounce back. So, those are some of the keys that

Porges: Thank you very much for taking the question. First, there are a number of things that are obviously affecting the environment right now Rick and I just want to ask about SKYRIZI and RINVOQ. You've previously given some longer-term aspirational revenue targets. I'm just wondering how you'd feel about those targets. Now we've seen a few quarters for each product. And also I understand you're going to have a little bit of COVID disruption. And then could you just talk a little bit more -- I think that's very helpful coverage of the plastic surgeon context. Can you just talk a little bit more about the other specialties and products where you're expecting impairment in Q2 and how quickly they could bounce back?

Gonzalez: Yeah. So this is Rick. I'll cover the first one. I may hand it over to Rob to give you a little more specifics, and then Mike will cover the second question. So I probably saw in the quarter, we did better internationally than we had projected initially. And so that is related to a great extent that we have seen less biosimilar conversion than we originally anticipated. It's a little difficult to tell at this point whether or not that is COVID-related. In other words one hypothesis could be and it is nothing, but a hypothesis is that because people are staying at home they can't get converted to biosimilars as rapidly. I think it's not the one that, our area organizations think is happening. It just appears that we're performing better than we had expected. But I think to know that for sure, we'll have to see a little more time play out. But overall, we feel pretty good. And so I'm not giving you a very good answer, because I don't know the answer totally. So I'm giving you the best information that I have available to me. Rob anything you'd add on?

Michael: I think if you look at our beat versus guidance it's about approximately $140 million. Keep in mind that, we have about $35 million of COVID-related inventory stocking. We did have some tender timing in Brazil. It's about $30 million. So the balance of that you'd call $75 million of favorability. Could there be some COVID-related impact there? Possibly. If you look, we didn't change our full year guidance even though we have the U.S. dollar strengthening. So that's inherently about a $70 million $75 million operational upside that we've baked in that's offsetting that foreign exchange headwind. So it is going better so far than we expected, which is great but it's hard to pinpoint whether it's

Severino: This is Mike. I'll take the question on 3373, which is our TNF steroid conjugate. It's in a proof-of-concept study in rheumatoid arthritis. And what we'd like to see there is efficacy that is greater than what can be achieved with currently available agents really across the board, but also with a particular focus on higher levels of response. Obviously, we're going to want to see that with an appropriate safety profile recognizing that a proof-of-concept study is a relatively limited safety database. And importantly, we're going to want to confirm that we can deliver that without impacting the pituitary access as a measure for systemic steroid effects. We have stated in other settings that from the 1b portion of this trial in healthy volunteers, we've shown we can deliver this construct without those steroid effects without impacting the pituitary axis. So we would expect to be able to do the same thing in

Severino: That's correct, Rick. And so, I think it's very hard to make exact predictions about the longer-term nature of the coronavirus infection rates. But what we are assuming, as Rick said is that, there will not be a major second wave in lockdown. And I think the factors that would play into that would be a much greater understanding of surveillance, broader access to testing, the ability to respond much more quickly based on experience. And based on those factors that I just mentioned, if small pockets of new infection do pop up, as well as hopefully the availability of some treatment options, although, I think, treatment options will continue to evolve over some period of time and renewed capacity or relief from the overcapacity status that the healthcare systems are currently operating under. So, I think, it's all of those features together that lead us to the view that supported the assumptions that

Gonzalez: Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Today, I'll discuss our second quarter performance and highlights. And for the first time, I'll provide our 2020 outlook for the newly combined company. Mike will then discuss recent advancements across R&D programs. And Rob, will review the quarter and our updated guidance in more detail. Following our remarks, we'll take your questions. I'd like to start off by recognizing all of our employees, including those joining AbbVie from Allergan for all of their hard work and dedication during this pandemic. The AbbVie team has been working diligently and carefully, within our facilities and remotely, to ensure that our business continues to operate properly and our patients continue to receive their medicines. Before I speak to the strong financial performance this quarter, I'd like to characterize the state of the recovery of the business from the COVID crisis. Let me start with the legacy AbbVie side of the business, which has demonstrated robust performance leading into the pandemic and has remained resilient. The impact on continuing patients for HUMIRA and new patients for RINVOQ, SKYRIZI and VENCLEXTA, were not as pronounced as we had previously anticipated. While patient flow has not recovered, in most therapeutic segments we're encouraged by the level of stabilization, and the recent positive demand trends. Overall, the legacy AbbVie business continues to perform very well, with stand-alone revenue growth in the second quarter of approximately 8.5% on an operational basis, excluding the negative impact from COVID. On the legacy Allergan side of the business, we saw significant COVID-related impacts on BOTOX Therapeutic and our aesthetics business in the second quarter. Both businesses are seeing a rapid recovery and are now performing near pre-COVID levels. Other key brands, such as, VRAYLAR and UBRELVY were impacted in a manner similar to the AbbVie-based business. And we're pleased with the recent trends and progress. Overall, COVID had a substantial impact on second quarter reported revenues with an estimated net unfavorable impact of more than $900 million. However, by the end of June the total business had recovered to more than 90% of pre-COVID levels. So I'm pleased with the resilience and the rapid recovery across our portfolio. And I'm confident in the continued strong underlying demand and performance of the combined new company. Despite the impact from COVID, we delivered a strong second quarter performance. Adjusted earnings per share of $2.34 were well above our expectations. The $0.21 beat included $0.11 of net accretion from Allergan, as well as $0.10 of favorable performance versus the midpoint of our stand-alone guidance. Total revenues were $10.4 billion, including approximately $8.4 billion of legacy AbbVie sales significantly above our expectations for the standalone portfolio with continued robust performance in both hem/onc and immunology, despite the impact from COVID. Hem/onc revenues of approximately $1.6 billion were up strong double digits again this quarter. IMBRUVICA sales grew approximately 17% on an operational basis, reflecting continued strong performance in CLL, where we remain the clear market leader. VENCLEXTA sales were up more than 80% on an operational basis with strong growth in CLL and AML. During the quarter, we also announced a strategic collaboration with Genmab to further build our oncology portfolio with a CD3xCD20 bispecific antibody. It has the potential to be a best-in-class therapy across B-cell malignancies. Our leading immunology business delivered revenues of more than $5.3 billion, reflecting growth of more than 8.5% on an operational basis. U.S. HUMIRA revenue growth remained strong, up 5% with continued demand from the large installed patient base, partially offset by the impact of COVID-19. International HUMIRA biosimilar dynamics in the quarter were better than our expectations. SKYRIZI continues to perform well and has maintained its leading in-play psoriasis patient share, which includes both new and switching patients at more than 30%. As expected, we saw modest delays to new patient starts during the quarter, as a result of the COVID-19 dynamics. However, recent prescription trends and increasing enrollment in our ambassador program two leading indicators demonstrate a strong growth trajectory and support our full year guidance of $1.4 billion. We're also seeing very encouraging trends for RINVOQ, where rheumatology office visits are approaching pre-COVID levels. RINVOQ revenues were up more than 70% on a sequential basis and currently reflect 15% in-play RA patient share, which is now nearly at parity to HUMIRA, the market leader in in-play share and above all other agents in the segment. We're also making excellent progress with our immunology pipeline, which Mike will discuss further momentarily. As I noted during the quarter, we successfully completed the acquisition of Allergan creating a stronger and a more diverse AbbVie. The transaction significantly expands and diversifies AbbVie's revenue base and complements our existing leadership positions in immunology and hematological oncology with additional growth franchises in aesthetics and neuroscience. We have growth opportunities in neuroscience with BOTOX Therapeutics, VRAYLAR and UBRELVY. And we have the leading global aesthetics business with flagship brands including BOTOX Cosmetics and JUVÉDERM. I'll start with neuroscience, which had sales of roughly $735 million to AbbVie in the second quarter. VRAYLAR continues to demonstrate rapid growth and is well on its way to surpassing $1 billion in annual revenues. Underlying demand has remained resilient despite the COVID-19 pandemic with strong double-digit growth again this quarter. We see significant room for continued expansion within VRAYLAR's existing indications bipolar disorder and schizophrenia. Major depressive disorder or MDD represents another potential large indication with two Phase 3 trials well underway. Also within neuroscience, we now have a portfolio of migraine therapies that have the potential to support long-term growth in a highly attractive and underserved market. Our migraine portfolio is anchored with BOTOX Therapeutic, which had revenues of roughly $300 million to AbbVie in the second quarter. Despite multiple new competitive entrants, BOTOX Therapeutic has largely retained its total treated patient base, a testament to its efficacy, safety and brand recognition. Like many physician-administered products, BOTOX Therapeutics saw a significant impact from COVID-19 in the second quarter with global sales down approximately 20% on a comparable operational basis. However, we're pleased by the recent data trends, which demonstrate a fast recovery and performance is now close to pre-COVID levels. The launch of UBRELVY, the first-to-market in leading oral CGRP for acute migraine is off to an excellent start. Feedback from physicians has been very positive given UBRELVY's efficacy, safety and convenient dosing profile relative to current standards of care. Commercial access for UBRELVY is now at 70%, which along with increased consumer promotion will further support the product's launch trajectory. We're also developing atogepant for the prevention of episodic and chronic migraine. We recently disclosed positive top line results from a Phase 3 study in episodic migraine, which will support regulatory submission early next year. As a fourth pillar of growth we now have the world's leading global aesthetics franchise, which generated sales of roughly $480 million to AbbVie in second quarter. As anticipated, we saw a decline in year-over-year comparable operational growth with aesthetics health care providers closed during the initial phase of COVID. It's now been roughly two months since most major geographies have begun to reopen. And we're pleased with the strong recovery trends we're seeing. As of the end of June, the vast majority of our aesthetics accounts have reopened in the U.S. and we're seeing considerable pent-up demand. Current U.S. aesthetic revenues have recovered and are approaching 95% of pre-COVID levels. Outside the U.S., we're also seeing steady recovery trends in China and Western Europe. Current international aesthetics revenues have recovered to approximately 90% of pre-COVID levels. Overall, we're very pleased with the momentum we're seeing on our aesthetics franchise. More broadly, we see aesthetics as a durable cash pay business with an opportunity for significant market growth, as well as continued new innovation driving long-term performance. While strategically important, the acquisition of Allergan will also drive strong financial benefits. Integration has been relatively seamless and we're impressed by the caliber of talent that we've welcomed into AbbVie. We remain on track with our synergy target of more than $2 billion in expense rationalization by the third year from transaction closing, which Rob will discuss further in his prepared remarks here momentarily. When you take these synergies into consideration along with the continued P&L leverage from our expected sales growth, we expect further operating margin expansion over the next couple of years. While the COVID crisis remains a fluid situation, our business continues to remain resilient and demonstrate strong underlying growth. Although we continue to carefully watch COVID-related events in the U.S., we're pleased with our recent business trends and the progress we're making towards recovery. And we expect performance will continue to ramp to normalized levels over the course of the second half of 2020. With these current assumptions and based on our recent outperformance of our base business, today we're issuing full year 2020 adjusted earnings per share guidance for our new combined company of $10.35 to $10.45, reflecting growth of 16.3% at the midpoint. This guidance assumes $0.70 of net accretion from the Allergan transaction in 2020, which represents 11% accretion on an annualized basis ahead of our initial projections for the transaction despite the COVID impact that I outlined earlier. Overall, we continue to see good momentum across our total portfolio and across our pipeline. We reported a very strong second quarter performance and remain encouraged by the recent recovery trends, which are faster than we expected. We continue to expect the COVID pandemic will have a transient impact on our business with further recovery continuing through the second half of 2020. With the closing of the Allergan transaction, AbbVie is well-positioned for enhanced long-term growth potential, a growing dividend, rapid debt repayment and strong investment in innovation across our therapeutic categories. With that, I'll turn the call over to Mike. Mike?

Severino: Thank you Rick. We had a very productive quarter with continued progress across all stages of our pipeline. Additionally with the recent closing of the Allergan acquisition, we added promising pipeline assets in the areas of aesthetics and neuroscience. We look forward to sharing updates as those programs progress through development. In immunology, we continue to advance our programs for RINVOQ and SKYRIZI in several new disease areas. This year, we intend to submit regulatory applications for three additional indications for RINVOQ. In June, we submitted applications for RINVOQ in psoriatic arthritis. And we expect to file applications for atopic dermatitis and ankylosing spondylitis later this year. We also recently reported topline results from our three registrational trials for RINVOQ in atopic dermatitis. Two of these Phase III studies Measure Up 1 and Measure Up 2 evaluated RINVOQ as a monotherapy for the treatment of adolescent and adult subjects with moderate to severe atopic dermatitis for candidates for systemic therapy. In the Measure Up one and Measure Up two studies, both doses of RINVOQ met all primary and secondary endpoints, demonstrating significant improvement in skin clearance and itch compared to placebo. In Measure Up 1, roughly 70% of patients receiving the 15-milligram dose and 80% of patients on the 30-milligram dose achieved a 75% or greater improvement in skin lesions by week 16. We saw a similar rates of skin clearance in the Measure Up two study, with roughly 60% of patients receiving the low dose and 73% of patients on the high dose, achieving a 75% or greater improvement by week 16. We also saw very rapid responses in these studies with clinically meaningful reductions in itch observed as early as one day after the first dose in patients receiving 30 milligrams and two days after the first dose in patients receiving 15 milligrams in both studies. We also saw very strong results in our third registrational trial, the AD Up study which evaluated RINVOQ in combination with topical corticosteroids. Similar to the results from the two Measure Up trials, RINVOQ met all primary and secondary endpoints in the AD Up study with patients who received RINVOQ showing significant improvements in skin clearance and reduction in itch compared to patients receiving placebo plus topical steroids following 16 weeks of treatment. Treatment with RINVOQ also led to a significant increase in the number of steroid-free days. And more patients receiving RINVOQ were able to stop topical corticosteroids altogether. We're very encouraged by both the level of efficacy and the safety profile we've seen across all three Phase III atopic dermatitis studies. And we remain very confident that RINVOQ has the potential to provide a strong benefit-risk profile in moderate to severe atopic dermatitis. In addition to these three registrational studies, we are also evaluating RINVOQ in a head-to-head Phase III trial against dupilumab and expect to see data from this study later this year. In the area of inflammatory bowel disease, our Phase III program for RINVOQ in ulcerative colitis is progressing ahead of schedule. And we now expect to see topline data from the first Phase III induction study later this year. We also recently reported topline results from a proof-of-concept study, evaluating our novel TNF steroid conjugate ABBV-3373 in RA. In this study, our goal is to drive a greater reduction in disease activity beyond the levels that can be achieved with HUMIRA or other high-efficacy agents such as RINVOQ. To achieve adequate statistical power, we used preplanned historical HUMIRA data in combination with in-trial data when comparing ABBV-3373 to HUMIRA. The study used two analyses for the primary endpoint which evaluated improvement from baseline in DAS28 score. The first analysis used a propensity matching strategy to compare 3373 with historical HUMIRA data. This analysis showed a greater change in DAS28 from baseline to week 12 for 3373 compared to the prespecified HUMIRA data. The second analysis used the Bayesian approach to compare 3373 to a combined in-trial and historical HUMIRA data set. And this analysis predicted with a 90% probability that 3373 was associated with a greater improvement in DAS28. Based on these encouraging results, we plan to advance the TNF steroid conjugate program in RA with a Phase IIb dose-ranging study expected to begin in the first half of 2021. We also plan to begin clinical studies next year in other immune-mediated diseases. Also, in the area of immunology we're making good progress advancing the programs for SKYRIZI in new disease areas. We expect to see data from Phase III studies in psoriatic arthritis later this year and in Crohn's disease at the end of this year or early next year, with regulatory submissions for both indications expected in 2021. In oncology, we continue to advance our hem/onc strategy with several important data readouts and study starts occurring this year. We've established a leading hem/onc portfolio with IMBRUVICA and VENCLEXTA in areas such as CLL and AML. And we will continue to generate data to demonstrate the utility of both drugs across a wide range of patient populations and cancer types. At the recent EHA Congress, detailed results from the Phase III VIALE-A study were reported which showed the treatment with a combination of VENCLEXTA plus azacitidine resulted in a 34% reduction in the risk of death compared to azacitidine plus placebo in AML patients who are ineligible for intensive chemotherapy. The median overall survival for patients in the VENCLEXTA arm was 14.7 months versus 9.6 months in the placebo arm. Patients in the VENCLEXTA arm also showed more than double the rate of composite complete remission compared to those treated with azacitidine alone. This filing is currently being reviewed by the FDA under the real-time oncology review program in Project Orbis. To-date, the AML program has focused on VENCLEXTA's use as a frontline treatment in transplant-ineligible patients. This year, we are expanding the program into other patient segments with the goal of establishing VENCLEXTA as a gold standard across the AML patient spectrum. Earlier this year, we initiated two Phase III studies, evaluating VENCLEXTA as a maintenance therapy in AML. One trial in fit patients with AML who have received stem cell transplant, but remain at high-risk for relapse; and a second trial, in patients with AML who are in first remission after receiving conventional induction and consolidation chemotherapies. In addition, building upon the survival advantage observed in the transplant-ineligible population, we are planning to initiate a new randomized study later this year testing VENCLEXTA in combination with intensive chemotherapy in patients who are eligible for more intensive induction regimens. Our comprehensive development program will position VENCLEXTA as a foundation for combination therapies in AML across all patient segments We also recently announced a broad oncology collaboration with Genmab to jointly develop and commercialize three next-generation bispecific antibody products and establish a discovery collaboration to create additional differentiated antibody-based therapeutics for cancer. The lead asset in this partnership epcoritamab a CD3xCD20 bispecific antibody has demonstrated a strong efficacy profile, favorable safety and a more convenient dosing regimen in early phase trials. We believe epcoritamab has the potential to become a best-in-class therapy across a number of B-cell malignancies, including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and follicular lymphoma. And we are rapidly advancing it to Phase III trials. And lastly a few updates from other areas of our pipeline. We previously presented positive progression-free survival data from two Phase III studies for veliparib in frontline ovarian cancer and BRCA breast cancer. Based on developments in the field and additional discussions with the FDA, we will not be submitting regulatory applications without mature overall survival data. We will continue to follow patients in the ongoing trials as overall survival data mature. In Eye care, we recently announced receipt of a complete response letter from the FDA for the abicipar BLA. The CRL indicated that the rate of intraocular inflammation observed in the Phase III program, resulted in an unfavorable benefit-risk ratio. We are currently reviewing the abicipar program to determine next steps and will provide updates as they become available. In women's health, in the quarter we received FDA approval of ORIAHNN as the first nonsurgical oral treatment for the management of heavy menstrual bleeding associated with uterine fibroids in premenopausal women. This new nonsurgical treatment represents an important therapeutic option for women suffering from uterine fibroids. And in neuroscience, we recently reported top line results from a Phase III study evaluating atogepant for the prevention of episodic migraine. In this study all three doses of atogepant met the primary endpoint evaluating the change from baseline in mean monthly migraine days across the 12-week treatment period. The two higher doses, 30 milligrams and 60 milligrams also met all secondary endpoints, while the 10-milligram dose met four out of six of the secondaries. Allergan had previously reported positive results from one registration-enabling study. And following this second positive study, we plan to submit our regulatory applications in episodic migraine prevention in the first quarter of 2021. In summary, we've seen tremendous progress across all stages of our pipeline in the first half of the year and we remain on-track for further advancements in the remainder of 2020. With that I'll turn the call over to Rob for additional comments on our second quarter performance and financial outlook. Rob?

Michael: Thank you, Mike. Starting with second quarter results, we delivered top and bottom line performance ahead of expectations. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $2.34 above our guidance midpoint by $0.21. This includes $0.10 of stronger performance from legacy AbbVie and $0.11 of accretion from Allergan. Total net revenues were $10.4 billion, including $2 billion in sales contribution from the Allergan portfolio. Legacy AbbVie was approximately $300 million ahead of our stand-alone sales guidance driven by RINVOQ, SKYRIZI and HUMIRA. COVID-related inventory stocking for the first quarter largely reversed as expected. U.S. HUMIRA sales were approximately $4 billion ahead of expectations due to the lower impact from COVID on continuing patient prescriptions. Wholesaler inventory levels remained below 0.5 month in the quarter. International HUMIRA sales were $863 million, down 17.4% operationally reflecting biosimilar competition across Europe and other international markets and ahead of our expectations. SKYRIZI global sales were $330 million with continued strong U.S. in-play market share. We also continue to see robust demand for RINVOQ with sales of $149 million in the quarter and a rapid increase in U.S. in-play market share. Hematologic oncology global sales were nearly $1.6 billion, up 25.8% on an operational basis with continued strong performance of both IMBRUVICA and VENCLEXTA. IMBRUVICA global net revenues were approximately $1.3 billion, up 17.2% driven by continued strong performance in CLL. VENCLEXTA revenues were $303 million with strong demand across all approved indications. Global MAVYRET sales were $376 million down 51.4% on an operational basis as treated patient volumes have declined during the COVID pandemic. Allergan Aesthetics contributed sales of $481 million in the quarter. BOTOX Cosmetic with sales of $226 million and JUVÉDERM with sales of $113 million are both seeing a faster-than-expected recovery from the COVID pandemic. Neuroscience global revenues were $734 million. These results were led by BOTOX Therapeutic VRAYLAR and UBRELVY with combined sales of more than $500 million. We also saw a significant contribution from our eye care business which had global sales of $417 million. Turning now to the P&L profile for the second quarter. Adjusted gross margin was 82.8% of sales adjusted, R&D investment was 12.8% of sales and adjusted SG&A expense was 22.9% of sales. The adjusted operating margin ratio was 47% of sales including a negative impact of 70 basis points due to the reversal of COVID-related inventory stocking from the first quarter. Adjusted net interest expense was $484 million and the adjusted tax rate was 11.4%. Today we are issuing combined company guidance for the first time. As Rick previously discussed, we are closely monitoring the impact of the COVID pandemic and have factored the latest trends into our updated forecast. We now expect full year adjusted earnings per share between $10.35 and $10.45 including $0.70 of accretion from the Allergan transaction. which represents an annualized contribution of 11%. Excluded from this guidance is $6.23 of known intangible amortization and specified items. This guidance now contemplates full year revenue of approximately $45.5 billion. At current rates, we now expect foreign exchange to have a 30 basis point unfavorable impact on full year reported sales growth. Included in this revenue guidance are the following updated full year assumptions. We now expect U.S. HUMIRA sales growth of approximately 8%. We now expect international HUMIRA sales of approximately $3.5 billion. For RINVOQ we now expect global revenues of approximately $600 million. For global HCV, we now expect sales of approximately $2.1 billion as treatments remain below pre-COVID levels. For aesthetics, we expect global sales of approximately $2.4 billion, including approximately $1 billion from BOTOX Cosmetic and approximately $650 million from JUVÉDERM. For neuroscience, we expect global sales of approximately $3.5 billion, including approximately $1.4 billion from BOTOX Therapeutic and approximately $950 million from VRAYLAR. For eye care, we expect global revenues of approximately $2.1 billion, including approximately $700 million from RESTASIS, which assumes no generic competition in 2020. And for women's health, we expect global revenues of approximately $700 million. All other full year product guidance assumptions remain unchanged. Moving to the P&L. We now forecast adjusted gross margin just above 82% of sales, adjusted R&D investment to be approximately $5.8 billion, adjusted SG&A expense to be approximately $9.9 billion, and adjusted operating margin of approximately 48% of sales. This P&L guidance includes approximately $600 million in expense synergies for the partial year in 2020. We remain on track to deliver greater than $2 billion in expense synergies by 2022. We now expect adjusted net interest expense of approximately $2 billion, which includes the cost of financing the Allergan transaction. We now model a non-GAAP tax rate of just above 11% for the newly combined company. Finally, we now expect our full year average share count to approach 1.7 billion shares, including the equity issue to finance the Allergan acquisition. As we look ahead to the third quarter, we anticipate adjusted revenue of approximately $12.8 billion. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a modest unfavorable impact on reported sales growth. We are forecasting an adjusted operating margin ratio of just above 48% of sales. We model a non-GAAP tax rate of 11.6%, and we expect the average share count to approach 1.8 billion shares. We expect adjusted earnings per share between $2.73 and $2.77, excluding approximately $1.59 of known intangible amortization and specified items. AbbVie remains well positioned to execute on our capital allocation priorities, including rapidly paying down debt, supporting a strong and growing dividend, and pursuing additional innovative mid to late-stage pipeline assets. We generated $6.9 billion of operating cash flow in the first half of the year. And our cash balance at the end of June was $6 billion. We are on track to pay down $15 billion to $18 billion of combined company debt by the end of 2021, of which nearly $7 billion has already been repaid. We expect to achieve a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 2.5 times by the end of 2021 with further deleveraging through 2023. In closing, AbbVie's performance and financial condition remain strong. We are very pleased with the momentum of the business heading into the second half of 2020.

Stanicky: Great. Thanks guys. I just have two one for Rick and one for Rob. Rick, a bigger-picture question a huge part of the AbbVie story is…

Severino: Thank you, Rick. We continue to make great progress across all stages of our pipeline and this morning I will highlight key events since our last earnings call. Starting with immunology, where we achieved several major milestones, including submission of our U.S. and European regulatory applications for RINVOQ in ankylosing spondylitis and atopic dermatitis. We expect regulatory decisions in the first half of 2021 for both indications, as well as for psoriatic arthritis which was submitted for regulatory review earlier this year. Within the rheumatology segment, both psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis are large and important markets and represent a significant growth opportunity for RINVOQ. We will highlight the growing body of data from our rheumatology portfolio and the -- at the upcoming virtual ACR Congress, where we will present 35 abstracts from multiple assets across our portfolio, including six selected for oral presentation. Atopic dermatitis is a new disease area for AbbVie and also represents an important area of growth for our immunology franchise going forward. Based on the data generated in our registrational program, we remain very confident in the benefit/risk profile for RINVOQ in atopic dermatitis and believe it will offer meaningful advantages over products on the market today or in development. Beyond the Phase 3 studies that support our regulatory submission, we are also evaluating RINVOQ in a head-to-head Phase 3 trial against dupilumab, which if successful, will help further support RINVOQ as a highly differentiated therapeutic option for patients with atopic dermatitis. We look forward to seeing data from this head-to-head study later this quarter. In the area of inflammatory bowel diseases, we remain on track to see induction data later this quarter from our Phase 3 program for RINVOQ in ulcerative colitis. We will see data from a second induction study in ulcerative colitis, as well as results from the maintenance portion of these studies next year. We expect to file our regulatory applications in 2021 as well. We are also making great progress with the development programs for SKYRIZI and later this quarter we expect data from several new indications across rheumatology and gastroenterology. We will see data from two Phase 3 studies in psoriatic arthritis and results from the first Phase 3 induction study in Crohn’s disease, supporting regulatory applications for both indications in 2021. Outside of immunology, SKYRIZI will also be evaluated as a potential treatment for COVID-19 as part of the NIH ACTIV program, which is a public private partnership aimed at accelerating potential therapies and vaccines for COVID-19. SKYRIZI was selected through a prioritization process that evaluated immunomodulators with acceptable safety profiles as potential treatments for COVID-19 complications caused by the cytokine storm observed in some patients. SKYRIZI will be included in the ACTIV-5 Big Effect trial, which is a Phase 2 study designed to evaluate a number of drugs that are either approved or in late-stage development as potential treatments for COVID-19. In our early-stage immunology pipeline, earlier this year, we toplined positive results from a proof-of-concept study evaluating our novel TNF steroid conjugate, ABBV-3373 in RA. We recently completed the Phase 1 PK and safety study for our second TNF steroid conjugate, ABBV-154. Based on these data, we have selected 154 to move forward into larger scale trials. We expect to begin a Phase 2b definitive dose ranging study for 154 in RA for the first half of 2021. As Rick mentioned, we will be hosting an Immunology Day for investors in December, where we will provide an update on our immunology strategy and long-term outlook for the franchise. We look forward to providing additional updates on our immunology pipeline at that time. In oncology, we continue to advance our portfolio with several important Phase 3 studies beginning in the quarter, including VENCLEXTA in high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome and navitoclax in myelofibrosis. We also recently received full FDA approval of VENCLEXTA in combination with azacitidine, decitabine or low-dose cytarabine in newly diagnosed AML patients, who are ineligible for intensive induction chemotherapy. This approval is supported by the Phase 3 VIALE-A and VIALE-C studies. Updated efficacy and safety results from VIALE-A were recently published in the New England Journal of Medicine and showed that the combination of VENCLEXTA and azacitidine extended overall survival compared to azacitidine plus placebo. Additionally, following the publication of the VIALE-A results, the NCCN guidelines were updated to recommend the VENCLEXTA and azacitidine combination as the Category 1 preferred treatment for AML patients who are ineligible for intensive chemotherapy. Importantly, the VENCLEXTA combination has the Category 1 designation irrespective of mutational status. Also in the quarter, we announced a collaboration with I-Mab to develop and commercialize the anti-CD47 monoclonal antibody, lemzoparlimab. The emerging data for lemzoparlimab is very encouraging and provides AbbVie access to another potentially differentiated asset in the immuno-oncology space. The data generated to date show that lemzoparlimab effectively blocks tumor-specific CD47 interactions, but with much lower binding to red blood cells, potentially leading to a better safety profile. Lemzoparlimab is being studied in multiple cancers with a focus on hematological malignancies. In neuroscience, we recently presented new data from several clinical programs at the virtual Migraine Trust International Symposium, showcasing the breadth and strength of our migraine portfolio and demonstrating AbbVie’s commitment to providing multiple treatment options for the acute and preventive treatment of migraine. In total, 15 abstracts were presented for BOTOX, UBRELVY and atogepant. Included in the MTIS presentation were the detailed results for atogepant in the Phase 3 advanced study, which demonstrated a clinically meaningful and statistically significant improvement over placebo, with all atogepant doses for the primary endpoint of reduction in mean monthly migraine days. Significant improvements were also observed for all secondary endpoints in the 30-milligram and 60-milligram dose groups. Treatment with atogepant resulted in 56% to 61% of subjects achieving at least a 50% reduction in monthly migraine days, compared to 29% for the placebo group. We are very encouraged by the strong benefit/risk profile that has been demonstrated for atogepant in migraine prevention and believe that once approved, this new oral treatment option will be competitively positioned in the prevention market. Together with BOTOX for chronic migraine prevention and UBRELVY for acute migraine treatment, the addition of atogepant creates a market leading portfolio in migraine that represents significant long-term value for AbbVie. In aesthetics, we continue to make good progress with our portfolio of facial toxins and dermal fillers. We have several ongoing programs for new indications for BOTOX and for the JUVÉDERM collection, as well as a pipeline of innovative toxins and dermal fillers, which we expect to reach the market over the course of the next five years. BOTOX has been the leading neurotoxin for over two decades, with R&D efforts in aesthetics primarily focused on the upper face. To support expansion to the lower face region, we have several programs ongoing, including studies in masseter and platysma prominence. We recently had a positive data readout for our Phase 2 study for the reduction of masseter prominence in the lower face. This study met all primary and secondary endpoints, demonstrating that the severity of prominence was reduced following a single treatment of BOTOX. Based on these results, we plan to begin Phase 3 development next year, which will support registration in the U.S. and Europe. We also recently announced the acquisition of Luminera’s dermal filler portfolio led by HArmonyCa, which is an innovative dermal filler developed for facial soft tissue augmentation. Luminera’s assets are highly complementary to our JUVÉDERM filler franchise and we look forward to expanding their development to markets around the world. And in eye care, we recently announced positive topline results from the Phase 3 GEMINI 1 and GEMINI 2 studies, which evaluated our topical eye drop, AGN-190584 for the treatment of symptoms associated with presbyopia. In both studies, 584 met the primary endpoint and the majority of secondary endpoints, with data from both studies demonstrating that treatment with 584 resulted in significant near-vision gains in low lighting conditions without a loss of distance vision. Based on these results, we plan to submit our regulatory application to the FDA in the first half of next year. So, in summary, we have continued to make significant progress advancing and accelerating our programs this quarter, and we look forward to many more important pipeline milestones in the coming months and through 2021. With that, I will turn the call over to Rob for additional comments on our third quarter performance and financial outlook. Rob?

Michael: Thank you, Mike. Starting with third quarter results, we delivered strong top and bottomline performance. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $2.83, above our guidance midpoint by $0.08. Total adjusted net revenues were approximately $12.9 billion, up 4.1% on a comparable operational basis and ahead of our expectations. Immunology global sales were approximately $5.8 billion, up 15% on an operational basis, despite the impact of COVID on new patient starts across the immunology market. U.S. HUMIRA sales were approximately $4.2 billion, up 7.7% compared to prior year, reflecting continued demand growth plus price. Wholesaler inventory levels remain below half a month in the quarter. International HUMIRA sales were $951 million, down 8% operationally, reflecting biosimilar competition across Europe and other international markets. SKYRIZI sales were $435 million with leading in-play share in the U.S. psoriasis market and robust sequential growth internationally. RINVOQ sales were $215 million with continued strong in-play share in the U.S. RA market. Hematologic oncology delivered another strong quarter, with sales of $1.7 billion, up 16.4% on an operational basis. IMBRUVICA net revenues were approximately $1.4 billion, up 9% driven by our leading share in CLL. VENCLEXTA revenues were $352 million, with strong demand across all approved indications. MAVYRET sales were $414 million, down 41.1% on an operational basis, as treated patient volumes have remained below pre-COVID levels. Aesthetic sales were $967 million with BOTOX cosmetic and JUVÉDERM both experiencing a faster than expected recovery from the COVID pandemic. Neuroscience revenues were more than $1.2 billion led by VRAYLAR and our migraine portfolio. VRAYLAR once again delivered strong growth with revenues of $358 million. BOTOX Therapeutic continues to experience a rapid recovery from the COVID pandemic, with sales of $523 million in the quarter. The launch of UBRELVY is also going very well with recent direct-to-consumer promotion driving new prescription growth. Sales of UBRELVY were $38 million. We also saw a significant contribution from eye care, which had sales of $840 million. Turning now to the P&L profile for the third quarter. Adjusted gross margin was 81.7% of sales, adjusted R&D investment was 11.7% of sales and adjusted SG&A expense was 21.1% of sales. The adjusted operating margin ratio was 48.8% of sales, an improvement of 40 basis points versus the prior year. Net interest expense was $620 million and the adjusted tax rate was 11.7%. As Rick previously mentioned, we are raising our full year adjusted earnings per share guidance to between $10.47 and $10.49, including accretion from the Allergan transaction of 12% on an annualized basis. Excluded from this guidance is $6.58 of known intangible amortization and specified items. This guidance now contemplates 2020 adjusted net revenue of approximately $45.7 billion, representing an increase of $200 million from our previous estimate. At current rates, we now expect foreign exchange to have a modest unfavorable impact on fully reported sales growth. Included in this guidance are the following updated 2020 assumptions. We now expect international HUMIRA sales approaching $3.7 billion. For SKYRIZI, we now expect revenues of approximately $1.5 billion. For RINVOQ, we now expect sales of approximately $700 million. For IMBRIVICA, we now expect revenue of approximately $5.3 billion, as new patient starts in the CLL market remain below pre-COVID levels. For Aesthetics, we now expect post-close sales of approximately $2.5 billion with BOTOX cosmetic and JUVÉDERM both demonstrating a fast recovery. For MAVYRET, we now expect sales of approximately $1.9 billion, as treatments remain below pre-COVID levels. We now expect LUPRON revenues of approximately $750 million, as we work to resolve a near-term supply issue, which has impacted availability of certain formulations. Moving to the P&L, we continue to forecast full year adjusted gross margin just above 82% of sales and adjusted operating margin of approximately 48% of sales. This guidance includes approximately $600 million in expense synergies for the partial year in 2020. We remain on track to deliver greater than $2 billion in expense synergies by 2022. As we look ahead to the fourth quarter, we anticipate adjusted net revenue approaching $13.8 billion. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a modest favorable impact on reported sales growth. We are forecasting an adjusted operating margin ratio of approximately 46.5% of sales. We model a non-GAAP tax rate of 11.6% and we expect the average share count to be similar to Q3. We expect adjusted earnings per share between $2.83 and $2.85, excluding approximately $1.73 of known intangible amortization and specified items. Finally, AbbVie’s strong business performance continues to support our capital allocation priorities. We generated $12.7 billion of operating cash flow in the first nine months of the year, and our cash and investments balance at the end of September was $8 billion. Underscoring our confidence in AbbVie’s long-term outlook, today we announced a 10.2% increase in our quarterly cash dividend, beginning with the dividend payable in February 2021. We also remain on track to pay down $15 billion to $18 billion of combined company debt by the end of 2021 and expect to achieve a net debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 2.5 times by the end of next year, with further deleveraging through 2023.

Schott: Great. Thanks so much for the questions and congrats on the results. I guess just two for me. First, 2021, I know you are not giving guidance yet, but can you just talk through some of the pushes and pulls we should keep in mind as we think about next year’s numbers and it seems like the core business obviously has a lot of traction here. I am just trying to get a sense of from your perspective what are the uncertainties as you think about that guidance number for next year? And my second question was on RINVOQ in atopic derm. Can you just elaborate a bit more on how you are thinking about the size of that opportunity? I know one of your peers has a single indication JAK in AD they think is a $3 billion peak sales opportunity. I know that’s well above your risk adjusted numbers you had a few years ago. It sounds like now you are talking about potential multi-billion dollar opportunity. But just help us flesh out a little bit about how big of an opportunity could this be for the product?

Gonzalez: Okay. So, Chris, this is Rick. I will talk a little bit about 2021 and then Mike maybe can talk a little bit about how we view RINVOQ in AD and Rob. So when we look at 2021, I think, you have to step back and say, how are we performing this year? And obviously we are performing very well. There’s still some COVID impact built in. It varies a bit by therapeutic areas, some areas are impacted more than others. So as an example, CLL has been impacted more than other areas, HCV has been impacted more than other areas. It’s usually places where the therapy can be delayed without significant consequence for the patient is where we are seeing most significant delays. So as we move through the fourth quarter, we will see whether or not that recovers more and that’s certainly one aspect of it. I would say, even without much recovery, the underlying performance of the business looks good. I think you can look at the dividend increase that we put through and that should give you some flavor for the level of confidence that we have, because obviously, we would want to tie that to what we assumed that we could deliver from an overall performance standpoint. I’d also say that, as we look to consensus, we are comfortable with what we see in consensus in 2021. So we want to see a few other things just play out primarily around COVID, how much improvement we get. We have launched a number of programs over the course of the last couple of months to try to activate patients more, to go to their physicians and seek treatment out. I think those programs, some of those programs will be successful and we will see some of those increase, particularly in immunology, because dermatology is another one of those areas that the new patient starts are still off a little bit. Now, obviously, SKYRIZI is performing extremely well and HUMIRA continues to perform well. So, I’d say that’s the single biggest issue. Rob, Mike, do you want to talk about RINVOQ?

Severino: Certainly. I will start and then pass it over to Rob, if he wants to add a little bit more detail. We view atopic dermatitis as a very attractive and a very substantial opportunity overall. It’s an indication that I think for many years was underappreciated by the industry. Now that’s changed recently and you have seen a lot of focus in drug development in atopic dermatitis. We feel very good about the profile that we have demonstrated, coming out of Phase 2, when we made those statements about the risk-adjusted potential in atopic dermatitis, we felt good about our data and those data were sufficient to get a breakthrough therapy designation. We are in the fortunate and not always that common situation where our Phase 3 results have actually outperformed our expectations based on Phase 2. And if you look at the Phase 3 results, they are really strong across the board. They are strong in total response. They are strong in repeated response and they are strong on components like itch, which is the most troublesome symptom to patients in the majority of cases. And so, when you couple that with the safety profile that we have demonstrated, which we think is very favorable. We see this as something that has very real potential and when we look across studies, we feel very good about our results. And of course, we have a head-to-head study with dupilumab, which is coming up later on this quarter and so that will be important additional information, and we are very optimistic about those results. Rob, I don’t know if you would like to add anything further?

Severino: This is Mike. I will take the question about 154. So, 3373 and 154 represent our TNF steroid conjugate molecules that are in the clinic. They are very similar, similar to the extent that we view the biology as being translatable between the two. But 154 includes some improvements in linker technology that relate to manufacturability and ability to formulate at high concentration, ease of formulation. And so those can be very important advantages for a successful molecule. We previously toplined the positive results from 3373. We wanted to see that 154 gave us the PK performance and the exposure to achieve the pharmacodynamic coverage we think we need in the next stage of development. And as I said, we viewed the biology as translatable between the two. So once we saw that PK performance and it matched our expectations and showed that 154 would give us the coverage that we were seeking at acceptable doses in the clinic, we made the decision to advance that molecule into larger scale trials.

Michael: Hey. Terence, this is Rob. I will take your question on synergies. So while we are not providing guidance for 2021 today. I think a good way to think about the expense synergies is to run rate the $600 million in partial year synergies, which gets to about $1 billion. And then, as you think about that ramp to greater than $2 billion by 2022, I think it’s reasonable to straight line that. So if you think about what’s going to drive the ramp? It’s things like systems integration, leveraging procurement spend, will result in more synergies over time, as well as network optimization. In the near-term, it’s really driven more from immediate redundancies like corporate infrastructure and R&D portfolio optimization. As it relates to the revenue synergies, look, as we have now had a few months with the combined company, we see opportunities as we think about investment in aesthetics, where we have really amped up our DTC investment for JUVÉDERM and BOTOX cosmetic, it give o the ability to invest more in aesthetics. Similarly, invest more in neuroscience, whether that’s VRAYLAR, BOTOX therapeutic. And then we look internationally given the infrastructure we have, the integrated brand team approach, we think there’s opportunity to really leverage our market access capability, our international affiliate structure to really drive that international growth for the company going forward for those

Gonzalez: Terence, the only thing I would add, maybe to give you some perspective on the investment side. Allergan tended to what I would describe as pulse invest in particularly DTC, but even in social media. So they didn’t -- and typically what we do with brands when we want to drive maximum speed of market penetration is we invest at a steady state and continue to do that for an extended period of time. So they might have invested heavily in one quarter and then gone dark in the next quarter and then invested again and gone dark again. We don’t use that kind of a strategy. We tend to invest for the full year. And in our experience, what that does is it gives you, the fact that you have constant coverage, gives you maximum speed of penetration. So we clearly think that’s going to be an advantage, particularly in areas like aesthetics and neuroscience.

Gonzalez: Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I'll discuss our fourth quarter and full-year 2020 performance as well as our expectations for 2021. Mike will then provide an update on recent advancements across our pipeline, and Rob will discuss the quarter and our 2021 guidance in more detail. Following our remarks, we'll take your questions. We delivered another strong quarter with adjusted earnings per share of $2.92, exceeding the midpoint of our guidance by $0.08. Fourth quarter total net revenues were up nearly 7% on a comparable operational basis. This performance was driven by robust double-digit sales growth from our immunology, hem/onc and neuroscience franchises, as well as 9% comparable operational sales growth of Botox Cosmetic, which is demonstrating a rapid recovery. Our fourth quarter performance topped off another excellent and truly transformational year for AbbVie, which included the successful acquisition and integration of Allergan, creating a stronger and much more diverse AbbVie with leadership across numerous attractive high-growth markets. Significant contributions from our two new best in category immunology medicines, RINVOQ and SKYRIZI , which combined for more than $2.3 billion in 2020 sales, their first full year on the market. We expect the combined contribution from RINVOQ and SKYRIZI to nearly double in 2021 to approximately $4.6 billion based on their continued strong uptake in RA and psoriasis as well as RINVOQ’s anticipated approvals in PSA, ankylosing spondylitis and atopic dermatitis later this year. We delivered continued robust growth from our leading hem/onc portfolio, with IMBRUVICA and VENCLEXTA contributing more than $6.6 billion in combined 2020 sales. We expect our hem/onc franchise to grow double digits again in 2021. We also added two compelling oncology pipeline assets, Epcoritamab, a potential best-in-class CD3xCD20 bispecific antibody in development for B-cell malignancies and lemzoparlimab, an anti-CD47 monoclonal antibody being studied in multiple cancers. These two assets will further support the growth of our hem/onc franchise across our long-range plan. The acquisition of Allergan brought us a substantial neuroscience portfolio with compelling therapies for migraine and psychiatric conditions augmenting our already existing neuro franchise. The newly combined neuroscience franchise delivered nearly $4.9 billion in comparable 2020 revenue and is expected to grow double digits in 2021. We also added the leading global Aesthetics franchise, a largely cash pay portfolio with roughly $3.5 billion in comparable 2020 revenues. As I previously noted, this portfolio has demonstrated a rapid V-shape recovery and we view Aesthetics as an extremely attractive long-term growth opportunity. And importantly, we made excellent progress in 2020 with our pipeline. We expect our R&D pipeline advancements to lead to the approval of more than a dozen new products or indications over the next two years, including a total of six additional indications for RINVOQ and SKYRIZI, which will cover all of Humira's major indications plus new significant disease areas, including atopic dermatitis, expanded indications for VENCLEXTA and Vraylar and several new product approvals, including Atogepant for episodic migraine, Navitoclax for myelofibrosis and ABBV-951, a potentially transformative next-generation therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease. These new opportunities will collectively add meaningful revenue growth in advance of the U.S. Humira LOE. We've entered 2021 in a strong position, which is reflected in our revenue and earnings per share guidance. Based on the recent outperformance of our business, we expect full-year 2021 comparable operational sales growth of approximately 9.4% with total AbbVie sales expected to be approximately $1.7 billion above current consensus, and we anticipate 2021 adjusted earnings per share of $12.32 to $12.52, representing growth of 17.6% at the midpoint. This level of guidance represents impressive performance with nearly all aspects of our business expected to perform at or above current consensus for 2021. The Allergan integration continues to go very well. The transition has been seamless despite the size of the transaction and the timing of the COVID pandemic. While we're making excellent progress against our expense synergies, which Rob will cover in more detail here momentarily, it remains increasingly clear to us that there are significant opportunities for long-term revenue contributions across numerous Allergan growth platforms. As we recently disclosed, we believe UBRELVY , the first-to-market in leading oral CGRP for acute migraine, represents a $1 billion-plus peak sales opportunity. Atogepant, a potential once-daily oral treatment for the prevention of episodic and chronic migraine also represents a $1 billion-plus peak sales opportunity. We expect Vraylar's peak sales to approach $4 billion within its currently approved indications of schizophrenia, bipolar I disorder and bipolar depression with major depressive disorder or MDD, representing a potentially significant incremental growth opportunity. Aesthetics, which is poised to regain its growth trajectory this year is expected to generate high single-digit revenue growth over the next decade. We continue to closely monitor the COVID dynamics, which will have an impact on our business again in 2021, predominantly in the first half of the year, but significantly moderated from the 2020 impact. And despite the recent COVID resurgence within select geographies, we feel the global healthcare system is much better equipped with COVID treatment protocols in PPE to safely see and treat patients throughout the current year. That said, some therapeutic areas continue to be more impacted than others, like CLL, HCV, certain hospital-based procedures, among others, which we have contemplated in our 2021 guidance. Overall, we've been pleased with the rate of recovery across our business, a testament to our differentiated product profiles and our commercial execution. So in summary, we've assembled an impressive set of growth assets and the outlook for AbbVie's business remains strong. With RINVOQ and SKYRIZI expected to contribute more than $15 billion in risk-adjusted sales by 2025 and our expectations for continued robust growth across hem/onc, neuroscience, and aesthetics, we have a high degree of confidence that we will be able to successfully absorb the Humira LOE impact in 2023, support an immediate return to total sales growth in 2024 and produce compelling high single-digit compounded annual total sales growth in 2025 through the remainder of the decade with the diversified portfolio and pipeline that we have today. With that, I'll turn the call over to Mike for additional comments on our R&D programs. Mike?

Severino: Thank you, Rick. We've clearly made significant progress with our pipeline over the past few years, particularly our late-stage programs in hematologic oncology with IMBRUVICA and VENCLEXTA, and in immunology with RINVOQ and SKYRIZI. Since inception, our R&D organization has delivered an impressive set of new products, which collectively contributed approximately $11 billion in revenue in 2020. We also continue to see significant evolution of our early and mid-stage clinical programs with many assets expected to transition to late-stage registrational studies over the next several years. We will continue to replenish our late-stage pipeline with innovative assets that have the potential to drive additional growth for AbbVie in the second half of the decade. At our recent immunology investor event in December, we provided a detailed overview of our immunology programs, highlighting the robust data generated to-date for RINVOQ and SKYRIZI across approved and pipeline indications. Included in this event, we presented positive topline data from two new Phase 3 studies for RINVOQ . Results from the first induction study in ulcerative colitis and results from the head-to-head study versus dupilumab in atopic dermatitis. We expect to see results from the second Phase 3 UC induction study later this quarter, and from the UC maintenance study in the middle of this year with regulatory submissions anticipated in the second half of 2021. Our regulatory applications for RINVOQ in atopic dermatitis are currently under review and we expect an approval decision in the US in the second quarter based on priority review and in Europe in the second half of the year. We recently received European Commission approval for RINVOQ in psoriatic arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis and expect approval decisions for those indications in the US in the first half of this year. I want to take a moment to address the topic of safety, specifically MACE and malignancies following the results from tofacitinib's post-marketing safety study. At present, there are no data to suggest the safety outcomes from their study applied to a specific JAK1 inhibitor such as RINVOQ. We are not aware of any signal for an elevated risk of MACE or malignancies with the RINVOQ or any JAK inhibitor other than Xeljanz. We conducted a pooled database analysis across our clinical trials for DVT, MACE and malignancies at the time of RINVOQ’s regulatory submission and have updated it periodically including up to the present. Rates with RINVOQ have not been elevated relative to competitors or to expected baseline rates. Importantly, there has been no increase or meaningful change in those rates over time. Additionally, we adjudicate events for MACE and DVT, which is considered the highest standard of evidence. If we look across our long-term database in RA, a population that is at increased risk for MACE events, our rates remain low. At the approved dose in RA, we have followed more than 3,700 treated patients totaling more than 9,000 patient-years' experience. Our rate of MACE events is 0.4 per 100 patient-years, which compares favorably to the expected rate of 1.0 to 1.7 events for 100 patient-years. In addition, there is no evidence of a dose-response between the 15 and 30-milligram doses. Similarly, the rate of malignancy, excluding non-melanoma skin cancer with similar follow-up is 0.8 events per100 patient-years. This rate is also consistent with the expected range of rates of 0.86 to 0.94 per 100 patient-years. And again, we see no evidence of a dose-response between 15 and 30-milligrams. Moving now to SKYRIZI; we also recently reported top-line results from the Phase 3 programs for SKYRIZI in Crohn's disease and psoriatic arthritis. In the two Crohn's induction studies, SKYRIZI demonstrated significant improvements in clinical remission and endoscopic endpoints compared to placebo with symptom improvement seen as early as week four. Based on the data generated to date, we believe SKYRIZI has the potential to become an important new treatment option for patients with moderate to severe Crohn's disease. We expect to see results from the maintenance study in Crohn's disease later this year with regulatory submissions anticipated in the second half of 2021. We're also very pleased with SKYRIZI’s results in the Phase 3 studies in psoriatic arthritis, where we saw significant improvements in disease activity across both skin and joint endpoints compared to placebo. We believe that the activity we have seen on joint disease and the impressive skin clearance that is a hallmark of the SKYRIZI program make it a compelling offering for patients with mixed joint and skin involvement. We plan to submit our regulatory applications for SKYRIZI in psoriatic arthritis in the first half of this year. We're making good progress with our early and mid-stage immunology programs as well where we expect several data readouts and phase transitions in 2021. We expect to begin three new studies for ABBV-154, our TNF steroid conjugate including a Phase 2b dose-ranging study in RA as well as Phase 2 studies in Crohn's disease and polymyalgia rheumatica. And we'll see proof-of-concept data in the second quarter for ravagalimab, our CD40 antagonist in Phase 2 for ulcerative colitis, and for ABBV-157, our oral ROR-gamma T inhibitor in Phase 1 for psoriasis. Both of these programs experienced slight COVID-related delays with results now expected for both in the second quarter of this year. In oncology, we continue to make significant progress advancing our pipeline with numerous data readouts and regulatory milestones last year. As well as the addition of several new assets brought in through our in-licensing efforts, including Genmab's CD3xCD20 epcoritamab and I-Mab's anti-CD47 lemzoparlimab. We showcased new data from several programs at the recent ASH meeting where we presented nearly 40 abstracts from eight different assets. Notable presentations included data from the Phase 2 CAPTIVATE trial evaluating IMBRUVICA plus VENCLEXTA in frontline CLL, which showed patients who achieved undetectable MRD following this combination maintain their deep remission at the one-year mark after stopping therapy with a 95% rate of disease free survival. We also presented new five-year data from VENCLEXTA’s Murano trial demonstrating the benefits of fixed duration VENCLEXTA combinations and helping patients achieve sustained progression-free survival. The latest results from Murano in the relapsed refractory CLL setting showed a median progression-free survival of 54 months in the VENCLEXTA and rituximab group, compared to 17 months in the bendamustine-rituximab group, three or more years after stopping treatment. Updated dose-escalation data from a Phase 1 study evaluating epcoritamab in B-cell malignancies were also presented at ASH. Epcoritamab is a subcutaneously delivered bispecific CD3xCD20 antibody being developed in collaboration with Genmab. In the Phase 1 study, epcoritamab demonstrated encouraging single agent anti-tumor activity in heavily pretreated patients with a consistent and favorable safety profile showing no Grade 3 or higher CRS events as well as limited neurotoxicity. We believe epcoritamab has the potential to become a best-in-class therapy across a number of B-cell malignancies including diffuse large B-cell lymphoma and follicular lymphoma. The Phase 3 trial in relapsed-refractory DLBCL recently began and we will provide updates on epcoritamab as its development program progresses. Initial results were also presented from a Phase 1 study evaluating TNB-383B in relapsed-refractory multiple myeloma. TNB-383B is a novel bispecific T-cell engaging immunotherapy targeting BCMA and CD3 being developed in collaboration with TeneoBio. These Phase 1 results demonstrated that the BCMA/CD3 bispecific provided overall response rates of 80% with a large number of patients achieving a very good partial response or better despite having received multiple prior lines of therapy. TNB-383B was well tolerated at all doses tested with a few off-target toxicities and no Grade 3 or higher CRS observed. With its safety profile efficacy and the convenience of once every three-week dosing, this agent has the potential to become a promising treatment option for myeloma patients. And our partner I-Mab published an abstract with initial results from a Phase 1 study evaluating lemzoparlimab in AML and MDS. These results demonstrated encouraging activity in relapsed-refractory AML patients and lemzoparlimab was well tolerated with no serious hematological adverse events reported today. Based on these promising initial results, we plan to begin new studies this year for lemzoparlimab in AML, MDS and in multiple myeloma. We also recently saw data from an interim analysis of a Phase 2 study evaluating Teliso-V in heavily pretreated non-squamous, non-small cell lung cancer patients. The encouraging results from Stage 1 of this study met the criteria for advancing the program. With Teliso-V demonstrating a 54% objective response rate in patients with wild-type EGFR with highly expressed c-MET. In EGFR wild-type patients with over-expressed c-MET, which includes both high and intermediate expression, the objective response rate was 35%. Based on these results, we believe that there is an important role for Teliso-V in this target population, which represents roughly 25% of the non-squamous, non-small cell lung cancer population. We will be opening the second stage of the study and are planning discussions with regulators regarding the potential of this study to support an accelerated filing. We expect 2021 to be another important year for our oncology pipeline with several regulatory submissions as well as data readouts across all stages of development. This year, we expect to see data for IMBRUVICA in the Phase 3 SHINE study in frontline MCL with regulatory submissions expected in the second half of the year. Data for IMBRUVICA in combination with VENCLEXTA in second line or greater MCL and frontline CLL with regulatory submission for frontline CLL expected in the second half of the year. We also expect to see data from registration enabling studies for VENCLEXTA in high-risk MDS and navitoclax in relapsed-refractory myelofibrosis. And we expect to see data from numerous programs in our early-stage oncology pipeline. In addition, the programs under collaboration with Calico are also progressing well. Our partnered effort is comprised of a strong pipeline of novel targets, which includes more than 20 active programs in discovery or preclinical development. Importantly, we currently have programs, which have advanced into clinical development in two areas immuno-oncology and neurodegeneration. The lead Calico program in oncology is focused on PTPN2 inhibitors, which act at multiple steps in the cancer immunity cycle and have potential applicability in a broad variety of tumor types. The discovery of novel orally bio-available PTPN2 inhibitors represents a significant breakthrough and a target class that has historically been considered un-druggable. We currently have two assets in Phase 1 development ABBV-CLS-579 and 484. We've seen evidence of immune activation in the clinic with this pathway and we expect to see proof-of-concept data from this program in 2022. The lead Calico program in neuroscience is an eIF2B activator, which targets a key regulator of the highly conserved integrated stress response pathway. Inhibition of this pathway has the potential to prevent pathology and restore function in a number of neurodegenerative diseases such as ALS and Parkinson's disease as well as in traumatic brain injury. Our lead eIF2B activator ABBV-CLS-7262 is currently progressing through Phase 1 and we plan to begin a study later this year in patients with ALS. In other neuroscience updates, last year, we completed our registrational program for atogepant in episodic migraine prevention and we recently submitted our regulatory application to the FDA. We expect an approval decision by the end of the third quarter. The data generated in our Phase 3 programs support a strong benefit-risk profile and we believe that atogepant has the potential to offer meaningful benefits to patients as a safe, effective, oral treatment option for the prevention of episodic migraine. In 2021, we expect to see data from several late-stage neuroscience assets, including results from two Phase 3 studies for Vraylar in major depressive disorder and results from the pivotal program for ABBV-951 in advanced Parkinson's disease with regulatory submissions for 951 expected in the second half of the year. We also expect to see proof-of-concept data for Elezanumab in a Phase 2 study in multiple sclerosis and ABBV-8E12, our lead anti-tau antibody in a Phase 2 study in Alzheimer's disease. In addition to 8E12, we have a number of promising approaches in Alzheimer's, including our neuroinflammation programs aimed at TREM2 and CD33, currently in clinical development, as well as other tau approaches in preclinical development. These include tau antibodies with different epitope specificity as well as approaches to clear intracellular tau. In Aesthetics, we continue to make excellent progress with our portfolio of facial toxins and dermal fillers with several regulatory submissions, data readouts and pivotal study starts expected this year. Our programs include new indications for Botox as well as innovative toxins such as new liquid formulations and both the long and short-acting toxins. We also have programs to develop new indications for the Juvederm Collection as well as novel dermal fillers such as HArmonyCa, which will be entering registration enabling studies in the U.S. And in eye care, based on the positive results from the Phase 3 studies evaluating our topical eye drop AGN-190584 for the treatment of symptoms associated with presbyopia. We plan to submit our regulatory application later this month and expect an approval decision in the fourth quarter of this year. So in summary, our R&D productivity remained high last year despite multiple COVID-related challenges and we were able to maintain steady continuity and minimize delays. We're entering 2021 well-positioned for continued success and we expect significant program advancement across all stages of our pipeline, again this year. This includes five new asset or major indication approvals, half a dozen regulatory submissions, more than 10 pivotal study readouts, and more than 15 data readouts from early and mid-stage programs. With that, I'll turn the call over to Rob for additional comments on our fourth quarter performance and our 2021 guidance. Rob?

Michael: Thank you, Mike. Starting with fourth quarter results, we once again delivered strong top and bottom-line performance. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $2.92 above our guidance midpoint by $0.08. Total net revenues were approximately $13.9 billion, up 6.8% on a comparable operational basis and ahead of our expectations. Immunology global sales were approximately $6 billion, up 14.8% on an operational basis. Within immunology, Humira sales were approximately $5.2 billion, up 4.4% on an operational basis with continued high single-digit growth in the US offset by biosimilar competition across international markets. SKYRIZI sales were $525 million and RINVOQ sales were $281 million with both products demonstrating strong sequential growth above expectations. Hematologic Oncology delivered another strong quarter with revenue of approximately $1.8 billion, up 15.5% on an operational basis with solid growth from IMBRUVICA and VENCLEXTA. Aesthetic sales were more than $1.1 billion with Botox Cosmetic and Juvederm both experiencing a rapid recovery from the COVID pandemic. Neuroscience revenues were nearly $1.4 billion, up 14.9% on a comparable operational basis, led by Vraylar and our migraine portfolio. We also saw a significant contribution from eye care, which had sales of more than $900 million. Turning now to the P&L profile for the fourth quarter. Adjusted gross margin was 81.8% of sales, adjusted R&D investment was 12.6% of sales, and adjusted SG&A expense was 22.3% of sales. The adjusted operating margin ratio was 46.9% of sales, an improvement of 230 basis points versus the prior year. Net interest expense was $618 million and the adjusted tax rate was 11.6%. As we look ahead to 2021, our full year adjusted earnings per share guidance is between $12.32 and $12.52, reflecting growth of 17.6% at the midpoint. Excluded from this guidance is $5.63 of known intangible amortization and specified items. We expect adjusted net revenue of approximately $55.7 billion. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a 1% favorable impact on full year comparable sales growth. This forecast comprehends the following assumptions for our key products and therapeutic areas. We expect immunology global sales of approximately $25 billion, including US Humira growth of approximately 8%, internationally Humira revenue of approximately $3 billion at current exchange rates, SKYRIZI global sales of approximately $2.9 billion, and RINVOQ global sales of approximately $1.7 billion. We expect hematologic oncology to grow double-digits with IMBRUVICA global revenue of approximately $5.7 billion and VENCLEXTA global sales of approximately $1.8 billion. For Aesthetics, we expect global sales of approximately $4.5 billion, including approximately $1.8 billion from Botox Cosmetic and approximately $1.3 billion from Juvederm. For neuroscience, we expect global revenue of approximately $5.7 billion, including Botox Therapeutic sales of approximately $2.3 billion, Vraylar sales of approximately $1.8 billion, and UBRELVY sales of approximately $400 million. For eye care, we expect global sales of approximately $2.9 billion, including approximately $550 million from RESTASIS, which assumes no generic competition in the first half of 2021. For women's health, we expect global revenue of approximately $1.1 billion. For remaining larger products, we expect global sales of approximately $2 billion from Mavyret, $1.2 billion from Creon, $1 billion from Linzess, $800 million from Synthroid, and $750 million from Lupron. Looking at the P&L for 2021, we are forecasting full year adjusted gross margin of approximately 83% of sales, adjusted R&D investment of approximately $6.6 billion and adjusted SG&A expense of approximately $11.8 billion. This guidance includes approximately $1.7 billion in expense synergies from the Allergan acquisition. We are forecasting an adjusted operating margin ratio of approximately 50% of sales, which represents an improvement of roughly 200 basis points versus 2020. We expect adjusted net interest expense of approximately $2.4 billion. Our non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 12.5% and our share count to be roughly flat to Q4 2020. As we look ahead to the first quarter, we anticipate net revenue approaching $12.7 billion. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a 1% favorable impact on comparable sales growth. We are forecasting an adjusted operating margin ratio of approximately 50% of sales. And we model a non-GAAP tax rate of 12.3%. We expect adjusted earnings per share between $2.79 and $2.83, excluding approximately $1.32 of known intangible amortization and specified items. Finally, AbbVie's strong business performance and outlook continues to support our capital allocation priorities. Our cash balance at the end of December was $8.4 billion and we expect to generate free cash flow of approximately $21 billion in 2021. This fully supports a strong and growing dividend, which we have more than tripled since inception, as well as rapid debt repayment where we expect to pay down $17 billion of combined company debt by the end of 2021, including the $8.6 billion that was repaid in 2020. We expect to achieve a net debt to EBITDA ratio just below 2.5 times by the end of 2021 with further deleveraging through 2023. We anticipate that our net leverage ratio will be approximately 2 times by the end of 2022. Our strong cash flow also allows for continued business development with approximately $2 billion allocated annually to augment our pipeline with the most promising external technologies and innovative mid to late-stage assets. In closing, we are very pleased with AbbVie's strong performance in 2020. We've driven top tier growth while also advancing our strategic priorities and we expect to deliver robust performance in 2021 and over the long term.

Gonzalez: The only thing I would add to Jeff's comments, I mean if you look at RINVOQ did $731 million last year. Obviously, if you look at the running rate out of the fourth quarter had strong running rate coming out of the fourth quarter but that's a $1 billion worth of growth from '20 to '21. The majority of that growth is going to come from continued performance in RA. I think where you will see the most significant impact from atopic dermatitis will be as we flow into '22, much like as you saw what happened in the RA market, it takes time for physicians to start to get adapted. Once they do, their momentum picks up. So, I don't remember the specific number. I'm not sure we gave that guidance anyway, but I would be thinking about it more than its continued penetration and growth in RA which drive in the bulk of that growth. Rob, anything you want to add?

Michael: Yes, I just -- on your question regarding warehouse patients who have a very modest amount of warehouse patients assumed in the forecast. So we're not count -- the $1.7 billion doesn't really count on that. And keep in mind that RINVOQ was of the product that was lesser impacted by COVID and so there's not really significant how warehousing in that forecast.

Gonzalez: And then, Randall, on your second question; I would say we absolutely agree with your point of view. I think eye care is a very attractive market. The kinds of markets that I think we look for and that we are the very best at is where there are specialized physicians who really drive the use of medications based on the clinical data and being able to restate markets and improve standard-of-care in those markets, and certainly, eye-care, I think it fits that description. And so we would have a strong appetite to look for opportunities and we are looking for opportunities now that we could add to that eye care business to be able to drive growth. Obviously, RESTASIS, as Rob indicated in his formal remarks, we've built in a half a year that's still an unknown of when that product will go generic or if it will go generic. But I think even aside from that regardless of what happens with RESTASIS longer-term, this is an area that we would have interest in and if we could find the right kind of assets to add to it, we would enthusiastically do that.

Schott: Great. Thanks so much for the questions. Can you just elaborate a little bit more on Aesthetics and maybe some of the learnings you've had in that franchise since you've acquired it? Have there been changes in the way you think about approaching the business commercially in your levels of investment? I'm just trying to get my hands around that high single-digit growth over time does seem healthier than the street have been anticipating. I'm just trying to get a little bit more color of what you're seeing in the market that gives you confidence in that. And then, my second question was just on IMBRUVICA, the growth has slowed here a bit. Can you just elaborate a bit more and how much of this is -- is there any COVID related dynamics playing out here? How much of this is competitive? I'm just trying to sense of just how you're seeing that the health of that franchise over time?

Gonzalez: Yes, Chris, this is Rick. So I'll cover the Aesthetics question for you. I'd say as we've studied the Aesthetics market and had an opportunity to be able to operate the business now for some time, I think we're even more enthusiastic about the long-term ability to be able to grow this market. I would say some of the areas that were a bit of a surprise to us is the responsiveness of this market to patient activation, and I would say that the strategy that we've put in place is one where we are funding the business on a very -- on a continuous basis at a high level to achieve the level of activation that we're looking for and we think that will, certainly, you can see, the response I guess an example in Botox already, we are seeing a very aggressive response in being able to grow the market, you saw the Botox grew -- Botox Cosmetic grew in the fourth quarter to 9%. I would expect that we can continue to drive that level of growth. And as part of legacy Allergan, I think it was much more episodic in the way this was funded quarter-to-quarter where we basically built a funding plan that will allow them to continue to drive activation over a longer term . I'd say the second thing that's it's of interest to us is, I think this is a market where you can drive significant innovation. If you fund that innovation in a way, again on a more continuous basis and advance those programs more aggressively, and have a well thought out strategic roadmap as to where you're trying to drive some of these markets. As Mike mentioned in his comments, our goal is to basically try to advance the level of performance of the toxin market significantly over time. And the same with the filler market. There are certainly things that we can do to expand the areas that you could use fillers, both within the US and globally and that's a significant opportunity. But long term, we think there is an opportunity to take some of the biologic expertise that we have here at AbbVie and create more biologically active fillers, and not only do physical filling but also improve collagen, improve elastin, and other kinds of characteristics that will improve skin quality. And we think that will be -- if we're successful, we think that will be a significant opportunity to drive long-term growth. And then, the last thing I'd say is the geographic footprint that AbbVie has. We obviously have a very broad geographic footprint and the structure that we've set up is this totally integrated global unit that we're operating the Aesthetics business really gives them the freedom to go out and expand or more aggressively fund areas around the globe that they think there is a significant opportunity. A good case in point is I believe it was in the fourth quarter, we funded a significant expansion in China to be able to increase the sales force there to be able to drive it more deeply into a broader set of the cities in China to the next level down and we are already seeing the benefits of that, China is already back to growing much like it did pre-COVID. So I think there's a lot of attractive attributes about that. On IMBRUVICA maybe Jeff and I will tag team on that one. What we're clearly seeing is the COVID is having an impact on patient starts in CLL. We're not only seeing it IMBRUVICA, but we're seeing in VENCLEXTA as well. And then somewhat logical when you think about these oncology practices of trying to reduce density and CLL is a disease where you can, in many patients' cases, you can delay therapy for some period of time. I would say that's the vast majority of it. When we look at -- when I look at the overall share. And the reason why I'm talking about the overall share is VENCLEXTA is now gaining a significant level of momentum in this market as well. When I look at our overall shares in first line, second line or third line, we continue to have the dominant share position. And I'd say probably, partially due to your question, if I look at Calico I'd say it's performing at the expectation we have. I think the first line share is about 12%, slightly higher in second line maybe 14%, and

Gonzalez: So I'd say that's within the range or we saw with MCL, it's within the range of what we had modeled. So it's not really a competitive issue that we're dealing with. It's more a function of getting those patients starts back up to the level they were before. Anything, you want to add, Jeff?

Stewart: Yes, hi. And it's Jeff, I'll take the second question on atogepant. I think first, the asset itself is very, very attractive. And when you look at the response on the migraine free days at the 10 to 60-milligram, it's really impressive data, very impressive data as this very strong oral. And so we think that we can come at this in a couple of different ways. Obviously, you highlighted the leveraging Ubrelvy. We've got a dedicated sales force that calls on the specialty organization, the neurologists as well as the headache specialists will actually carry both UBRELVY and atogepant in their call plan to really leverage the knowledge of a very established sales force and as well as focus on the big primary care writers that see a lot of migraine sufferers. So this is -- this is an important dynamic that will, we'll be able to leverage when we get into the market towards the end of the year. Also, we are looking at the ability to see how you look on the back end of the migraine journey so patients are on Botox Therapeutics, for example, which is very substantial. It's the leading in play share for chronic migraine. But many of those patients don't get full efficacy results. So ultimately the combination of Botox plus atogepant as a way to get really migraine freedom in the toughest patients is another area over the long term that we think can leverage these assets across the board, whether it's you UBRELVY on the front end with acute atogepant in the middle, oral for episodic and chronic or Botox on the back end. We think it's a nice portfolio that we can commercially manage over time to hit our ambitions that

Jacob: Hi Naveen from UBS. Thanks for taking the question. So first on the ADC steroid you see for inflammatory conditions. Just wanted to get an update there, it's been, I believe you said delayed for COVID-19 do you still believe that this approach can lead to success for refractory RA or other inflammatory conditions. Just wondering about your confidence in this technology understanding, it's still early in development. And then secondly, as it relates to your current state of affairs with RINVOQ and SKYRIZI, could you remind us of what the current in-play market share for our

Severino: Okay. This is Mike, I'll take your first question on ABBV 154 our TNF steroid conjugate has not been delayed because of COVID. There were some delays in other early immunology programs. Our CD 40 and our ROR gamma-T program experienced modest delays but 154 did not. As we said at the time of the COVID peak over the course of last summer, there were a small number of studies that we delayed initiation and delayed enrollment, is the programs that I'm talking about TD 40 and ROR gamma T were impacted modestly in that time period but 154 was not so that remains on-track. We remain confident in it. We have selected 154 as the agent to go forward. Remember that we had two 3373 and 154 and we selected 154 because of advantages it had in linker technology, we're planning to initiate a large Phase 2 B study in the first half of this year and then today, we're now saying that we will also be studying Phase 2 Crohn's disease, as well as polymyalgia rheumatica, and that's an important set of indication that covers a wide range of opportunities, RA and Crohn's disease areas where we are very active, PMR polymyalgia rheumatica is a new area where there is not a lot of therapeutics, unfortunately, it is a well-established area in medicine but there is very little in terms of treatment for these patients, they have considerable pain and suffering from their condition and it's -- and it's particularly steroid responsive. So we think it is a very attractive target for our steroid ADC approach.

Stewart: Thanks, Mike. It's Jeff, I'll take the in-play share. So if we look at the psoriasis market and SKYRIZI we have on our latest data point 33% of in-play share, which is of course is new patients coming in or newly switch patients. If you look at the total AbbVie share, it's approximately 45%, so very remarkable when you add Humira plus SKYRIZI in the dermatology space. If you look at the RA space, our latest data points are between 15% and 16% in terms of in-play share for RINVOQ in RA and that's basically neck and neck with Humira, so for a total

Risinger: Yes, thanks very much, and congrats on the results and updates. I have two questions. First, just to follow on, on that comment, could you just help us understand a little bit more about why Imbruvica is such an outlier in the cancer market, why the pandemic is hitting Imbruvica very hard whereas the pandemic is not hitting other cancer agents so hard? Then second, with respect to esthetics, it’s obviously booming, and it is validating your acquisition of Allergan. But I think that you updated guidance for the year for Botox cosmetic to $1.9 billion, and that implies flat sequential sales from the $477 million that you booked in the first quarter, so if you could explain that please.

Severino: This is Mike. I’ll take the first question and then others will comment on your second question. With respect to why Imbruvica is being hit harder than other anti-cancer agents in the pandemic, I think it has to do with the underlying rate of progression CLL. CLL, while it is a very significant limiter of long-term function and survival, in the short term there’s a sense that therapy can be delayed if necessary because the rate of progression is relatively slower than other forms of cancer, for example certainly much slower than AML, another indication that we are very active in, in the hema-on space. I think in the setting of the pandemic, that’s why you are seeing more deferrals for start-up therapy and, in some cases, longer time to switch a therapy, which would explain why Imbruvica dynamics are different than other anti-cancer agents that treat other diseases.

Michael: David, this is Rob. On your question regarding Botox cosmetic, we did see in the first quarter, if you just look at toxins market growth, it’s over 30% in the first quarter. There is some impact from pent-up demand as we come out of the pandemic, but we feel very good about the forecast we put forward. We obviously took it up $100 million, so it’s essentially pass through to beat in the quarter. I’d say your math on flat sequentially, I think it’s up a little bit, but really if you consider that we did have some level of pent-up demand come through in the quarter, you’ve got to back that out to truly understand the underlying demand dynamics.

Severino: This is Mike. I’ll take the first question. With respect to oral psoriasis agents, we would want to come in from an efficacy perspective with something that clearly exceeded the threshold that existed in the past with Otezla, and I think coming in a range that is Humira-like or better would be our goal. I think if you look at BMS’ Tyk2, they sort of come in at that Humira-like efficacy, and so I think that is generally the range that we’re talking about. I think when one talks about a direct comparison in terms of where a bar is set, we have to look not only at efficacy but at safety and at the totality of the data. Obviously it’s extremely early for our RORγT agent, but we think it is a molecule, because it impacts very well understood biology with a good understanding of where to go from an efficacy perspective and a good understanding of safety, that we can get in a range that’s very competitive there, so I think we’d be looking for that Humira-like efficacy or greater as something that we would like to use to enter the space with in oral, obviously coupled with a strong safety profile.

Gonzalez: On your second question, this is Rick. I think the way we approach the markets that we operate in is we look for areas where there is significant unmet need and then we ultimately try to come up with solutions for those needs. Sometimes it’s drug only - in fact, I’d say the majority of our historical experience as AbbVie has been drug-only, but as an example, 951 is a good example of where it’s a combination product, right - a device and a drug. Certainly as we look at ophthalmology, we have implantable devices that were part of the Allergan acquisition that are important therapeutic options, that are available for physicians and patients. I’d say we tend to go at it and we’re certainly not opposed to devices being part of it if they can add to the ability to be able to provide for an advancement in the standard of care. In esthetics, as Rob indicated a moment ago, we’re looking at what is that big third leg on the stool, and we believe that is body. I would say in the area of body, devices are going to play a much more critical role, and so that’s an area where I think you’ll see us embrace even device-only kinds of strategies because they provide the right solution for that particular improvement. It’s an area that historically many of us know well because of our experience, as you pointed out, in our previous life, but I’d say also the teams in the organization itself tend to look for broad-based solutions that can meet the unmet need.

Jacob: Hi, thanks so much for squeezing me in here. A couple if I may, if we have time. Just on Vraylar, you have strong long term guidance of $4 billion with just the existing indications, but the script trends at least seem to have slowed down, obviously in part because neuro has been weak as an overall therapeutic area during the pandemic. But just wondering--and just given that the quarter itself was a little bit weaker, I think, versus expectations, can you talk about the broader neuro market? Is that weakness there, because we do see strength with Ubrelvy and with Botox therapeutics, so just wondering if there’s something going on specifically with Vraylar? Has the bipolar depression opportunity been tapped out for some reason, and what can you and need to do to accelerate growth for Vraylar with the existing indication? That’s number one. Number two on Rinvoq, I think understands the rates around DVTP and MACE, but if you could give a little bit more clarity, based on the updated data that you’ve filed with the agency, what the rate of malignancy is across the indications, and whether that’s any different between the strengths and how that compares to the background rate.

Scala: Thank you, a couple questions. Many of the questions so far suggests concerns around RINVOQ. But I'm wondering if this could all turn into be a positive. So, to what extent do you believe RINVOQ prescribing might be being held back by competitor product concerns? So, once those concerns are resolved and or RINVOQ emerges unscathed, if it does. RINVOQ could even do better. And we could be looking at a sharp acceleration in share gains and prescription trends in Q4. So that's the first question. And secondly, on Humira contract renewals that will be signed in coming months for 2022. What is the typical duration of those contracts? Are they typically 12 months? 24 months, 36 months? If you can give us an idea of that that would be helpful.

Severino: Yeah, it's a very good question. And this question we fought a lot about, let me give you some perspective on RINVOQ. So, if you look at our, let's say, our demand performance, and I think I mentioned my prepared remarks, we've been very consistent about 15% in place share in the large RA market, which is just under Humira, which has grown a little bit over the COVID times and since January to about 18%. So, we're very, very stable. And I do believe that there is some overhang on certain segments of prescribers that have, let's say, going back a little bit to the TNF, really our own product, Humira. So, it's not outside of the realm of possibility as this resolves and really largely, as you probably heard, or seen Xeljanz has lost in play share over that period. So, I do believe there's a little overhang in certain, probably significant segments of Rheumatology. So, we are anxiously awaiting the resolution here of oral surveillance, which obviously has delayed our regulatory submissions. But it's not outside of the realm of possibility, given the very significant and differentiated data that we have in our packages, that we can see an acceleration as things resolve. But we're going to anxiously be monitoring.

Gonzalez: And see, this is Rick. On the contracting question, I'll handle that one. It varies quite a bit based on product and by managed care organization, but I'd say typically, so it can be some of them can be as short as 12 months, it's probably more common to be in a 24 month range from a contracting standpoint.

Severino: So, this is Mike, I'll take that. With respect to the focus on plaque, I think when one looks at all of the data, you can conclude that if you can reduce plaque rapidly, from that point forward, you can see a benefit. So, in other words, getting the majority of patients to a level where they are amyloid negative by PET, so below 20 centoloids. And doing that rapidly is what's required to see a benefit emerge over time. And part of the importance of speed is that you're not going to see that benefit until you get to that level. So, if you spend the entire period of a trial, getting to that level, you don't then have an opportunity within that trial to see an improvement in cognition. And of course, for patients, if you don't get to that level fast enough, they're not going to drive benefit for a period of sometimes too many years. And they need really faster than that. So, that's our focus on plaque. With respect to different components and the role of oligomers. I think it's hard to tease that apart right now, what we know from the data is what I said that getting patients to amyloid negativity, but reducing plaque is what seems to drive a clinical benefit, whether there are upstream steps that one could try to impact to achieve the same result. I think it's an open question. And we're going where the science tells us to go today. With respect to IV or subcue, I think it's early to answer that question. It's going to relate to ultimately the delivered dose. And then dose forms that can be delivered. So, for example, there are on body injectors and other things that can deliver more than the traditional one or two and those of a solution containing a monoclonal antibody. So, there are approaches that could be IV or subcue, but I think it's a little bit early to make predictions on how that will all play out.

Hector: Hello, thank you for taking my question. Sorry, going back to RINVOQ again, but I just wanted to check that the approval of the pending indications isn't a particular gating item for your filing in UC. And then I see that you haven't changed your guidance for RINVOQ for this year. And I know previously, you've stated that maybe would only ever be a small contribution this year. But rather than self, I just wonder whether there's any particular savings on your launch costs this year due to the delay? And then maybe on TMB-383. Again, I think I've understood this is now 100% belonging to you. So just to check, no impact from the Amgen acquisition? And then when might we see a Phase 2 start looks like you have a dose data very compelling. So how soon could we be looking out for that trial starting data?

Severino: Okay, this is Mike. I'll start with the RINVOQ question and pass it to Rob. And then I'll come back or the 383 question. With respect to the UC filing, the UC filing is not dependent on the approvals in the other indications. And obviously, the timing of release of review of the UC filing would carry it out to a point where those matters where

Michael: Yeah, and your question regarding the guidance for RINVOQ. So you're right, we did give guidance to $1.7 billion early this year, assuming we would have a new indications approved. We said that would be a minor contribution, think of it in that couple of hundred-million-dollar range. But given the strong performance out of the RA indication, we've maintained that guidance, despite the fact that those approvals are delayed. There is some level of savings in terms of SG&A related to approvals being delayed. But at the same time, we're investing the business you'd look at, we're doing the aesthetics. Obviously, other parts of Allergan business, there's opportunity to invest more broadly. So overall, SG&A is up because we are investing for long term growth, but there is some level of savings associated with the

Severino: With respect to 383, the BCMA, CD3 bispecific, you're correct, there is no impact of the Amgen acquisition of Teneobio on that. The asset would be ours and it would be unencumbered by anything related to the Amgen acquisition. In terms of Phase 2 timing, we plan to move forward very rapidly, not only with Phase 2, but with Phase 3 studies. With this asset, we think the data that have been generated are very strong, very high levels of response, good levels at the DGPR were better thresholds with a very good safety profile as well and a profile that would fit well with combination therapy and move to earlier lines of therapy. So, we'll advance the program aggressively and we'll update on the specifics a little bit later on in the year.

Severino: Okay. Thanks, Chris. This is Mike. I will take the first one, and then Rick will take the second part of your question. With respect to RINVOQ in the 3 new indications. So psoriatic arthritis, atopic dermatitis, and ankylosing spondylitis. We remain very confident in those files, and we remain very confident in approval decisions. The gating factor here is really getting to the specifics of the language around RA, which is a process that is well underway. And we would expect to be in a position to gain approvals after that is completed. And again, we hope that's completed in the near future, certainly this year. The psoriatic arthritis and atopic dermatitis filings, we would expect to follow fairly closely on the heels of that RA decision for ankylosing spondylitis. As I mentioned in my prepared remarks, we rolled in a new study, which is a positive study and a very strong study in ankylosing spondylitis into that submission. And so that one might be on a slightly different time-frame, but we remain very confident in that approval as well.

Gonzalez: This is Rick. On Botox, I think one of the things when we first went through the integration process that was compelling to us was the amount of penetration in these markets and Allergan's ability to be able to reach out and touch consumers and activate those consumers. And that's part of what drove our decision globally to go with this fully integrated, totally dedicated Aesthetics organization. Because in many other markets around the world, although the data is not quite as good as it is here in the U.S., but in China as an example you see is very similar kinds of dynamics. And so focusing that team purely on Aesthetics was part of the effort here to be able to drive accelerated growth. The second was, when we looked at the ability to be able to use various methods to be able to activate consumers. We believe that the business was being underfunded in a way, both in the way it was being funded and the total amount that was being funded. And so we did some early work to determine whether or not that funding could drive incremental market growth, and it showed a positive result. And then when we saw that, we applied significantly greater funding to it. And what you're actually seeing now, I think, is we are driving the market. We're bringing more patients into the category, and obviously because we have the leadership position from a market share standpoint, we get the vast majority of those patients. Is there still some pent-up demand? I would tell you it's hard to believe at this point that there can be a lot of it, but there has to be some of it. Remember those practices reopened in the U.S. in the summer of 2020. That's a long time to have pent-up demand, but it's impossible to tell one way or another. I would say the majority of it is certainly being driven by us activating patients and retaining more patients. One of the other things we saw was the retention rate was relatively low once you activated a patient. And so we spent some time working with the team to figure out how could you retain those patients at a higher rate, meaning they repeat their procedures. They don't just do it once and then disappear, but they come back for a second procedure or plus going to fillers as an example. So the data is very clear. If you look at the U.S. as an example, toxins and fillers are growing high 30% of the market. We're growing at about the same rate, maybe a little bit lower on fillers but about that rate on toxins. When we look at globally, the overall brands are growing at about that rate. And so, I think this is a business that is sustainable over the long term. When we say across the decade high single-digits, obviously, if we keep this growth rates. The business is getting bigger and bigger. So therefore, the percentage will come down a bit. But I'd tell you, I'm very optimistic about this market, and our ability to be able to bring new assets into this market. They can change the standard of care going forward and us being able to drive market growth at the same time.

Anderson: Thank you. I wanted to ask a question on HUMIRA in 2023, I'm just really trying to nail down what's in that erosion guidance of 45% plus or minus 10. That's sales erosion, not volume, correct? I'm trying to think through what happens to the U.S. rebate stream in 2023, which is likely in the billions of dollars. Do you think you'll retain favorable formulae positioning even with biosimilars, in which case you keep paying that rebate, but you also would have less volume loss, or do you think it becomes disadvantage on formulary, in which case you pull back those billions of dollars in rebates, and that flows through the bottom-line. To me, I just wonder if your guidance on aversion is frankly too conservative or, I should say too aggressive because those rebate dynamics in the U.S., they make us a more durable market than ex-

Gonzalez: Vamil, this is Rick. So, I’ll cover the first one, and then I’m going to have Jeff cover the Ubrelvy question that you’ve asked. So, it’s a good question. Obviously, the HemOnc market in the areas that we participate in, in particular, I would say CLL has changed over the last several years. I think one of the -- certainly, one of the things that was not ever anticipated in that guidance was the impact that COVID would have on the market and the reduction that we saw in the number of new patients, which was quite sizable. And that obviously wasn’t contemplated in it. And the second thing is we are seeing certainly more competitive pressure, both from price and some volume than we anticipated in that time frame. Having said all of that and -- well, I’d say a third item is, certainly, Venclexta is performing well as well. And I’d say, it’s tended to exceed some of our expectations, at least at this point within the launch trajectory of the brand. So, all of those have factors in what we’re describing here. I’d also say we have done a nice job of building out our HemOnc portfolio from an R&D standpoint. When I look at some of those assets that I described in my opening comments, I think they’re going to have a very significant opportunity. As an example, one that I didn’t mention there would be Venclexta and the t(11;14) multiple myeloma population. That could be a very significant opportunity, we feel good about that. We should get a readout on that. And we think that could be a significant contributor to both improvement in in-patient therapy, but also a significant improvement in the overall revenue in the franchise. And then, you have things like Navitoclax and epcoritamab and 383, those are all significant opportunities to be able to drive growth. So, I still feel confident in the overall ability for us to grow our HemOnc franchise. Having said that, I would say, Imbruvica is under more pressure than we anticipated. When we put that guidance out, at that point, we didn’t even contemplate a follow-on BTKs in any meaningful way. But we do see more competitive pressure there. But overall, I’d say, I still feel very confident in our ability to be able to grow that, that will be a growth franchise for the

Stewart: Yes. Hi Vamil, it’s Jeff. So, just to answer your question on Ubrelvy in the overall market. Certainly, we’re very pleased, as I mentioned in my remarks, over the momentum on Ubrelvy. We continue to lead in that acute space. And the early results for Qulipta are also very strong. Now, a lot of it is going to depend on how that CGRP market develops. So, if you think about it in this way, and this is how we think about it is, is it’s about in terms of new patient capture for the total Ubrelvy market, where we also compete with another player from Biohaven. It’s about 18% to 19% of the market. And the market is also with the expanded triptan market, of course. So, if you look at that, the payers certainly like you to step through one or more triptans. When you look at the population that may not be eligible for a triptan or fails a triptan, the estimates are typically up to 30% to 35%. And so, the market has potential room to sort of double into that epidemiology. So, you can kind of run the numbers there. I mean, we often get the question, is it over $1 billion? Is it closer to $1 billion or is it closer to a higher number. But nonetheless, we’re pleased. Certainly, it’s exceeded our expectations so far, and Qulipta has as well. So, I think there’s more room for the market to run, but we’ll have to see. I mean, there are payer pressures in the market, as

Scala: I have a couple of questions. At a high level, I struggle to understand why 2022 won’t be a stronger year than the guide on the earnings line. Skyrizi and Botox are doing phenomenally. Rinvoq is holding its own. Humira will still be exclusive in the U.S. for the whole year and should be at peak profitability and the pandemic less an obstacle. So, why won’t 2022 look more like or even better than 2021 in terms of earnings power? And secondly, there was no mention of the CF program even in the upcoming milestones. Any thoughts on the timing of the triplet data? In the past, I would describe AbbVie confidence as being no more than moderate. Has it changed one way or the other?

Severino: So, on epco, we have a high degree of confidence in epco overall. It continues to deliver very strong results, high overall response rates, very deep responses, good complete response rates across a number of indications, DLBCL and follicular lymphoma both. With respect to the confidence in accelerated approval for diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, when we look at the data, we think it clearly exceeds the benchmarks of available therapies in highly pre-treated refractory patients. So, we would think that accelerated approval should be supported by those data, will allow the data to continue to mature from the expansion cohorts and have our final regulatory discussions later on this year to set up that accelerated approval submission. So, it certainly is in our planning, and we think it’s very supportable based on the data. With respect to confidence in Vraylar and MDD, we’re confident in that -- we’ve been confident. We were confident when we saw the data and looked at the strength of those data and looked at the relevant precedents for molecules that have achieved indications, not only in depression, broadly speaking, but in adjunctive treatment of major depressive disorder. We’ve completed all of the regulatory discussions that we need to have for the submission, and we’re planning the submission shortly as we described in my prepared remarks. In terms of potential for an AdCom, it’s really too early to comment on that. We typically start to have those conversations with the agency a few months into the review process. But, based on the data and based on the precedence, it’s not something that we would anticipate. However, if the agency were to have one, it wouldn’t concern us either.

Gonzalez: Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I'll briefly comment on our overall performance, then Jeff, Tom and Rob will review our first quarter business highlights, pipeline progress and financial results in more detail. I'm pleased with the excellent start to 2022. It further reinforces our confidence in the long-term fundamentals of the business. We reported adjusted earnings per share of $3.16, exceeding our expectations. Total net revenue of more than $13.5 billion was up 5.4% on an operational basis, also above our expectations. These results demonstrate strong momentum across several key products and portfolios, including robust double-digit operational revenue growth from Skyrizi, Rinvoq, Neuroscience and Aesthetics. Skyrizi is performing exceptionally well. We are achieving impressive market share gains in psoriasis, which remains a significant market opportunity. Skyrizi's recent launch in psoriatic arthritis as well as the anticipated regulatory approval in Crohn's disease should also serve as important growth drivers over the long-term. Rinvoq is also contributing compelling sales growth. Subscription trends in RA have recently stabilized as we expected and we are making excellent progress repositioning the brand as the leading second-line agent based on the robust data generated across our broad development programs. The early launch trends for Rinvoq in both atopic dermatitis and psoriatic arthritis are highly encouraging, with commercial access and paid prescriptions expected to ramp significantly over the coming months. We anticipate that these two new indications, along with the recent U.S. approval in ulcerative colitis, should add substantial revenue growth for Rinvoq over the long-term. Neuroscience remains an exciting opportunity for our company. Vraylar continues to have strong momentum across our currently approved indications and the pending regulatory approval in major depressive disorder represents a significant upside to current projections. In migraine, our portfolio of distinct therapies with Ubrelvy, Qulipta and Botox Therapeutic is demonstrating robust double-digit sales growth. With the migraine market anticipated to roughly double in size over the next several years, there is significant headroom for continued revenue growth with these compelling therapies. Aesthetics is once again exceeding expectations. The category continues to grow robust double digits, especially in toxins and fillers, where there is substantial opportunity for further market penetration. Our commercial team is executing at a high level with targeted promotion and enhanced digital services, including our Alle loyalty program driving strong market share performance across our major brands. In summary, this is an exciting time for AbbVie, and I'm extremely pleased with the evolution and momentum of our diverse portfolio. We're making excellent progress with the launches of several new products and indications, which will collectively add meaningful revenue for AbbVie as commercial access ramps for each of these opportunities over the remainder of this year. We're off to another exceptional start, and our long-term growth prospects remain strong. I'd now like to take a brief moment to thank Mike Severino for his contributions to the success of AbbVie over the last eight years. As you know, Mike has decided to leave AbbVie at the end of May to pursue another career opportunity, and we wish him all the best. I'd also like to take this opportunity to formally introduce to you Tom Hudson. Tom joined AbbVie back in 2016 as the Head of Discovery and Early Development. In 2018, Tom undertook responsibilities for AbbVie's entire discovery organization. Then in 2019, was promoted to the Head of AbbVie R&D and Chief Scientific Officer, where he assumed responsibility for all of AbbVie's R&D. Tom has an impressive background as a clinical scientist. His medical specialty is in clinical immunology and allergy. Tom played a critical role in the human genome project while working at both the Whitehead Institute and MIT, where Tom led the team that mapped the human genome. Tom was also instrumental in the international half map project to refine the genetic architecture of the human genome. Tom went on to further lead the Ontario Institute for Cancer Research, which included discovery and translational cancer research with a clinical network of more than 1,000 investigators. Tom will be providing an update on our continued pipeline progress to you later in the call. But first, I'll turn the call over to Jeff for additional comments on our commercial highlights. Jeff?

Stewart: Thank you, Rick. We continue to demonstrate strong commercial execution across our therapeutic portfolio. I'll start with Immunology, which delivered global revenues of more than $6.1 billion, reflecting growth of 8.1% on an operational basis. Humira global sales were approximately $4.7 billion, down 1.8% on an operational basis with low single-digit revenue growth in the U.S., offset by biosimilar competition across international markets, where revenues were down 17.9% operationally. Skyrizi global revenues were $940 million, reflecting positive momentum in both approved indications. In psoriasis, Skyrizi is demonstrating impressive market share gains globally. Skyrizi now accounts for approximately 23% of the total prescription share in the U.S. biologic market. Skyrizi's in-play psoriasis share, which includes both new and switching patients, also remains very, very strong and now reflects roughly 40% patient share in the U.S. and a clear number one leadership position. Skyrizi is performing exceptionally well internationally, where we have now achieved approximately 10% psoriasis share across our top 12 markets, as well as in-play share leadership in more than 20 key countries. While we were early in our launch in psoriatic arthritis, we are encouraged by the uptake in this indication. In the dermatology segment, Skyrizi has already achieved in-play patient share of more than 10% in the U.S. Internationally, Skyrizi PSA is now approved in 45 countries, with reimbursement expected to increase throughout the year. Importantly, we are also preparing for the launch of Skyrizi in Crohn's disease, which represents another important long-term growth driver with approval decisions anticipated this year. Turning now to Rinvoq, which delivered global sales of $465 million, demonstrating continued strong growth. As anticipated, we have seen an impact on new patient starts following the label update and Rinvoq prescriptions have now stabilized in the U.S., with in-play market share currently 12% in RA. We expect growth in the second line plus RA setting going forward where our field force is now focused on leveraging compelling data from two important Phase III trials. First, SELECT-CHOICE, which demonstrated Rinvoq's superiority versus ORENCIA across key efficacy parameters, including clinical remission in previously treated RA patients. And second, the open-label extension of SELECT-COMPARE which demonstrated that many RA patients with an inadequate response to Humira are able to achieve remission after switching to Rinvoq. Early feedback suggests this updated Rinvoq RA messaging is resonating very well with healthcare practitioners. Internationally, Rinvoq share continues to ramp in RA with a total market share of approximately 5.5% across key geographies. We are also making excellent progress with Rinvoq's newly launched indications, including atopic dermatitis, psoriatic arthritis and ulcerative colitis. Managed care access is expected to ramp strongly for each of these indications over the coming months. As we build access, initial prescriptions are covered by our BRIDGE program. which provides free patients or free goods to patients until formulary coverage is established. As a reminder, the volume from our BRIDGE program is not captured in third-party prescription data. I'll start with atopic dermatitis. We are seeing new patient starts accelerating as we build access. When you include prescriptions from our Bridge program, Rinvoq total in-play AD share is already in the mid-teens. So, we are pleased with the early adoption and repeating prescribers. As an oral option that provides significant skin clearance and itch relief, we believe Rinvoq has a strong differentiated position in this highly underpenetrated AD market. In PSA, we are seeing a nice uptake in Rinvoq's in-play share, especially in the rheum segment, where the severity of joint or skin manifestations of the disease can vary significantly by patients. And importantly, we have also launched Skyrizi in the rheum-PSA segment this quarter, giving us two very compelling therapies to address the wide range of PSA patient types, regardless of how their symptoms present. We have also launched our first indication in the IBD segment, Rinvoq for ulcerative colitis, where we are seeing a significant long-term opportunity in the second-line plus setting. Nearly 50% of UC patients are currently on or have used TNF therapy, so the addressable patient population is substantial. Given the strong benefit risk in this indication, we believe Rinvoq will be a welcome therapeutic option for UC patients and physicians. Turning now to hematologic oncology. Global revenues were more than $1.6 billion, down 0.6% on an operational basis. Imbruvica global revenues were approximately $1.2 billion, down 7.4%. There are two factors impacting our Imbruvica results. First, we are seeing greater market share erosion in new patient starts than originally anticipated from newer therapy, including other BTK inhibitors, as well as our own Venclexta. Second, we continue to see higher-than-expected COVID suppression on new patient starts in CLL, which as a treat-to-progression therapy, has impacted the total BTK treated patient market. Our guidance assumes a market recovery over the course of this year, but it's too early to determine exactly how this may play out, given the continued impact from recent COVID variant. Despite these dynamics, Imbruvica remains the market-leading therapy for total patients across CLL and several other major blood cancers. Based on the magnitude of clinical data and real-world evidence generated for Imbruvica, showing sustained disease control as well as overall patient survival, we are confident it will continue to be a meaningful product for AbbVie over the long term. Venclexta, however, is helping to offset some of the headwinds facing Imbruvica. Global sales were $473 million, up 21.1% on an operational basis. In the US, Venclexta's the clear market share leader in frontline AML, among patients who are ineligible for intensive induction chemotherapy and recently achieved leading new patient share in second line plus PLL. We are also seeing robust momentum internationally, with strong performance across all approved indications. Additionally, we continue to make excellent progress building out our hem/onc portfolio, with several compelling late-stage assets, such as epcoritamab for B-cell malignancies, Navitoclax for myelofibrosis and ABBV-383 for multiple myeloma, expected support -- expected to support sustainable long-term growth. Turning now to neuroscience, where revenues were approximately $1.5 billion, up more than 20% on an operational basis, including robust double-digit growth from Vraylar, Botox Therapeutic and Ubrelvy. Ubrelvy is performing very well and continues to be the market-leading oral CGRP treatment for acute migraine, with sequential demand growth observed. Qulipta is also demonstrating exceptional uptake in migraine prevention, with recent total prescriptions performing ahead of comparable branded launches. Qulipta is now capturing nearly 25% on of the new-to-brand share in the US preventative CGRP class when we consider both paid and bridge volume. We expect commercial access to continue to ramp strongly over the remainder of the year. Qulipta has also recently demonstrated positive results from a registration-enabling study for the preventative treatment of chronic migraine, which we plan to submit to the agency for potential expanded use in the US as well as to support regulatory applications across the international market. This indication, if approved, will provided added differentiation for Qulipta as the only oral CGRP therapy for the preventative treatment of both episodic and chronic migraine. In our other notable therapeutic, eye care revenues of $771 million were down 2.8% on an operational basis with recent generic competition for Restasis unfavorably impacting our results. Mavyret sales were $380 million, down 4.6% on an operational basis as treated patient volumes remain depressed compared to pre-COVID levels. So, overall, I'm extremely pleased with our execution across the therapeutic portfolio, including the progress we are making with recent new product launches. We remain on-track to deliver strong revenue growth once again in 2022. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Tom for additional comments on our R&D program. Tom?

Flynn: Hi, thanks for taking the question. I was just wondering, obviously, you guys have been speaking with payers about the Humira positioning for 2023. Are you willing to give us any update in terms of how you're thinking about that guidance figure that you put out a couple of years ago? Any change in thinking there? And then are you able to disclose the CR rate for the recent epcoritamab Phase II trial? Just wondering how that factors into the decision about whether to seek accelerated approval here?

Gonzalez: So Terence, this is Rick. I'll take the first question for you. And I'm probably going to answer a little broader because I think it is important. I understand the interest in trying to understand how to model 2023, it's obviously important to us to model 2023 as accurately as possible. And I think if you step back, obviously, contracting is one portion of a variable that will impact the speed at which biosimilars are able to adopt – be adopted in the market. If you step back and look, there's probably four key variables that will impact, what that adoption rate looks like. One of them is obviously, what will Humira's access be post biosimilars entering the marketplace? And this is the period where you would normally be doing the contracting around that. I think we'll do well in being able to be co-positioned versus biosimilars in the vast majority of covered lives here in the United States. But that process isn't done, and we're not in a position to be able to ultimately, give you any further update until we're a little further along in that process. The second variable that will impact what 2023 looks like is, how will the biosimilars price? We don't know that. Obviously, we have seen how they price in markets outside the U.S., but there's no market exactly like the U.S. internationally. And so that's a variable. We're making some projections of what we believe that pricing will look like. But that's ultimately something we're going to have to see how it plays out. I'd say the third variable is, how competitive will these biosimilars be? It's going to be by the summer of 2023, there's going to be a lot of biosimilars in the U.S. market, but they're not all the same. And how competitive will they be against what is Humira today? And what are the bulk of patients use as it relates to Humira. And what I mean by that is interchangeability and a number of other factors are going to play into the competitiveness of those biosimilars. And I'd say the fourth variable, and it's not something that people think about that much, and that is the ability of a biosimilar to be able to supply the U.S. market. There's no market like the United States for Humira anywhere around the world. In the United States, it's significantly larger than any other market around the world. There are certainly biosimilar players that are like an AbbVie, and I would expect them to have manufacturing capacity. There are generic players that could have sufficient manufacturing capacity, and then there are very small companies. But I think anybody -- any payer that's going to want to convert in any significant way to a biosimilar, they're going to want confidence that they can have a reliability of supply of that biosimilar and we've spent years building the network that we have. We have full redundancy of every aspect of the manufacturing process on Humira. And we've never had a problem supplying the U.S. market. So, I think we can be viewed as kind of the gold standard. So, those are the variables that are going to impact what this transition looks like. The guidance we've given so far is this 45%, plus or minus 10%. I think at this point, that's still the best information that we can provide. Later this year, I think some of these variables will be clearer to it. And we may be in a position to be able to provide some more information to investors, and we would do that. Some will not. Pricing will not be clear at that point. We're not going to know how they're going to price until we actually get into -- they actually get into the marketplace. So, I think that's the way to think about these variables. Rob, anything you'd add?

Michael: Yes. So, this is Rob. I would just add that we've been trying to give investors some directional guidance on how to think about 2023 beyond just the Humira, 45% plus or minus 10%. We've talked about Aesthetics growing high single digits annually over the next decade. You can get a sense based on Jeff's response today and the way to think about Imbruvica. In terms of operating margin, I've talked about that pulling back to the 46% to 47% range with no cuts to investment because we're going to return to growth very quickly. So, we're going to continue to invest in this business. And as I look at Street consensus, I see modeling of cuts in SG&A not necessarily reflecting the appropriate operating margin levels. So, it's something just to keep in mind. And then even -- we've talked about the tax rate growing one point per year on average. Obviously, you saw this year, it only grew 0.2 points. Other years, it may go higher. So, we've tried to give the Street some ideas of the way to think about 2023 model in advance of our formal guidance.

Michael: This is Rob. What I would add, Steve, just to clarify, I mean, we have a business that's going to deliver high single-digit growth during 2025. It doesn't make sense to be cutting investment in 2023. And that's what the Street consensus is modeling currently. So, we expect to invest in this business, invest in R&D, invest in SG&A to drive that long-term growth. And given how quickly we'll return to that growth,

Baum: Thank you. Question for Jeff. Perhaps you could comment on the impact of IL-31 inhibitor in atopic dermatitis where we're expecting additional Phase 2 data, which obviously don't have the JAK labeling associated with how you think it's going to impact the market in terms of delaying the onset of JAK therapy? And then second for Neil, could you talk to how large the commercial potential for Venclexta in t(11;14) myeloma, which is due to reported Phase III this year anytime?

Stewart: Yes. Thank you, Andrew. So important question. So the way that we see the market for the other ILs, I do think that there will be a segment of conservative dermatologists that will attempt to sequence. And I think that largely that they'll be disappointed because it seems the newer agents are very, very difficult to distinguish from Dupixent. I think certainly, there could be market access dynamics that start to appear with subsequent ILs, I think that's something that we will watch and you would want to watch. I think what's, again, maybe not appreciated as we watch the early quarters of performance in Europe and the first quarter of performance here in the US, is that there's significant amount of early adopters and dermatologists that will go right to a JAK inhibitor, as I mentioned. They're not always sequencing through Dupi. And it's because the severity of some of these patients and the level of the clinical involvement is very, very significant. And so, we do see what you would call a significant amount of naive use based on the profile of the JAK inhibitor. Now these are early adopters. These are people that have already contemplated the risk benefit and I think that's important. And so, the way that we see the market developing is that, when physicians would start with Dupi, which will be in a significant proportion of patients, it's not clear at all that their next step will be another IL that has been approved or will be approved. In fact, we think it's more likely that they will move towards the best JAK that can get to these high levels of skin clearance, the EZ 90 plus almost no perceived itch. And I think that's the endpoint that this market is going to move towards and Rinvoq is the drug that clearly can deliver on that promise. And so that's how we see the market developing, and that's why we remain encouraged on the early results around the world from what we're seeing with the agent.

Michael: So Josh, it's Rob. If you look at the continued consideration, actually, it's a fair value liability, it went down this quarter because of discount rate. So we always have to pay attention to discount rate movement. So we saw the average discount rate increase by about 130 basis points. You're seeing, obviously, as rising interest rates are taking hold of the market. That's something we have to take into account because we had to mark this to market every quarter. If you look at our release, we had a similar – we had a decrease last year as well. Again, we had discount rates increase in Q1 of last year, albeit to a lesser extent. So that's what you're seeing is just really the discount rate movement. No other real fundamental changes to the valuation of that liability.

Gonzalez: Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. I’ll briefly comment on our overall performance. Then Jeff, Tom, and Rob will review our second quarter business highlights, pipeline progress and financial results in more detail. AbbVie delivered another strong quarter with adjusted earnings per share of $3.37, exceeding our expectations. Total net revenues of approximately $14.6 billion was up 6.1% on an operational basis, in line with our expectations. This performance reflects robust double-digit operational sales growth from immunology, where Skyrizi is exceeding our expectations with impressive market share gains in both psoriasis and PSA. Skyrizi’s recent U.S. approval in Crohn’s disease will add yet another source of long-term growth. As a result of the strong performance we’ve seen in the first half of the year, we are raising our full year guidance for Skyrizi. Rinvoq is also demonstrating strong growth. RA continues to perform in line with our expectations, following the label update, and we’re making very good progress with all of the newly launched indications, including PSA, AS, atopic dermatitis and ulcerative colitis, which collectively represent a significant long-term growth opportunity. Neuroscience is another area with outstanding performance Vraylar, Botox Therapeutic and Ubrelvy and Qulipta each demonstrated double-digit sequential sales growth. Pending regulatory approvals for Vraylar in major depressive disorder, Qulipta in chronic migraine and 951 for the treatment of advanced Parkinson’s disease represent additional near-term growth opportunities for our neuroscience portfolio. Turning now to aesthetics, Botox Cosmetics once again performed very well with sales up more than 20% on an operational basis. Demand for toxins remains strong with high teens growth in the U.S., despite inflation dynamics. As expected, Juvederm performance was negatively impacted by COVID-related lockdowns in China, as well as the suspension of our operations in Russia. Additionally, in the U.S., we had a difficult prior year comparison with a promotional event that we ran last year. We also saw a modest impact in the quarter due to economic pressures. We continue to expect positive full year growth for Juvederm driven by the lessening COVID impact in China and two new filler launches in the U.S. which will benefit growth in the second half of the year. In hematological oncology, Imbruvica continues to be unfavorably impacted by a delayed market recovery for new patients starting therapy in CLL and increasing competition. These ongoing dynamics will have an impact on Imbruvica’s projected 2022 revenues. As a result, we will be adjusting our full-year guidance to reflect these impacts. Venclexta to continues to demonstrate robust share performance in both CLL and AML, with sales up double digits on an operational basis. Venclexta also has registrational studies ongoing in additional attractive indication, such as multiple myeloma in the t(11;14) patient population with Phase 3 data forthcoming, as well as high risk MDS. Additionally, we have an exciting and diverse pipeline of promising new therapies to address critical unmet needs in both, blood cancers and solid tumors, which are expected to support the next wave of AbbVie’s growth in oncology. In summary, the diversity of our portfolio, once again allowed us to deliver another strong performance, despite the challenges we see in the CLL market and increasing Imbruvica competition. Skyrizi and Rinvoq are performing exceptionally well and are on pace to deliver approximately $7.5 billion in combined sales this year. Neuroscience demonstrated balanced double-digit growth driven by migraine and Vraylar and continued robust Botox cosmetic growth offset some of the U.S. inflationary impact to our filler and body contouring portfolios. As a result, we are confirming our full year 2022 adjusted earnings per share guidance of $13.78 to $13.98, representing growth of more than 17% at the midpoint. With that, I’ll turn the call over to Jeff for additional comments on commercial highlights. Jeff?

Stewart: Thank you, Rick. I’m very pleased with the momentum across our therapeutic portfolio, including the continued progress we’re making with new product and recent indication launches. I’ll start with our immunology portfolio, which delivered total revenues of $7.2 billion, reflecting growth of 19.2% on an operational basis. Global Humira sales were approximately $5.4 billion, up 6.8% on an operational basis with 9.6% growth in the U.S., partially offset by international performance where revenues were down 7.3% operationally due to biosimilar competition. Skyrizi is performing extremely well, well ahead of our expectations. Global revenues were more than $1.2 billion, up 33% on a sequential basis. We continue to advance our leadership position in psoriasis where Skyrizi’s total prescription share of the U.S. biological market has increased to approximately 26%, driven by an in-play share of new and switching patients that is now approaching 50%. We have also achieved in-play market share leadership in 23 key international markets, including Japan, Germany, France, Canada, and Australia. Psoriatic arthritis is also adding significantly to Skyrizi’s momentum, where we are now approved in 54 countries. In the U.S. dermatology segment, where approximately 30% of patients exhibit both skin and joint involvement, Skyrizi is already achieving an in-play patient share of nearly 20%. We have also launched Skyrizi for PSA in rheumatology, where we’re seeing strong utilization, which is driving accelerated share growth. Our recent launch of Skyrizi for Crohn’s disease in the U.S. represents the first new biologic approval in six years for an area where there continues to be considerable unmet need. We believe Skyrizi represents a highly effective and differentiated treatment option for Crohn’s patients, including the potential to provide meaningful levels of endoscopic improvement with novel and infrequent dosing. Managed care access is expected to ramp strongly for this indication in the coming months. Turning now to Rinvoq, where we’re seeing good momentum across each of the approved indications. Global sales of $592 million were up more than 27% on a sequential basis. Prescriptions in RA remained strong with a total market share of 5.8% in the U.S. and approximately 6% across key international markets. Rinvoq is now achieving an in-play RA share of approximately 13% in the U.S. In PSA, Rinvoq continues to see nice uptake, especially in the room segment with commercial access now equal to RA. We also recently received FDA approval for ankylosing spondylitis and European approval for non-radiographic Axial SpA, further expanding Rinvoq’s potential across rheumatology. In atopic dermatitis, new patient starts are tracking in line with our expectations with Rinvoq’s in-play patient share in the mid-teens. Strong commercial access in AD, which is also now equal to RA and PSA, is expected to considerably increase paid prescription volume in this highly underpenetrated market over the remainder of the year. Lastly, our recent launch of Rinvoq for ulcerative colitis in the U.S. is progressing well. And we recently just received European approval for the same indication. Commercial access in the U.S. is ramping strongly, and we are seeing encouraging new patient starts. Physician feedback regarding Rinvoq’s approved profile in UC has been favorable, especially given the very high rates of remission and endoscopic improvement demonstrated across our UC development program. The addressable patient population for Rinvoq in UC is substantial, with nearly 50% of patients currently on or having used TNF therapy. Turning now to hematologic oncology, where total revenues were $1.65 billion, down 7.9% on an operational basis. Imbruvica global revenues were approximately $1.1 billion, down 17.1% and below our expectations. The CLO market continues to remain challenging in the U.S. with new patient starts down double digits relative to pre-pandemic levels. Now, as you may recall, our initial 2022 Imbruvica sales guidance contemplated a partial market recovery, which, unfortunately, we have not yet observed. In fact, the latest data reflects new patient starts in the U.S. were actually down high single digits versus last year. So, based on recent trends, we no longer believe it’s prudent to anticipate a meaningful market recovery in CLL over the second half of this year. Therefore, we will be removing this assumption from our 2022 guidance. In addition, increasing competition from newer therapies, including other BTK inhibitors as well as our own Venclexta also continue to lower Imbruvica’s share of new patient starts, especially in frontline CLL. Despite this increasing competitive pressure, Imbruvica continues to be the total market share leader across all lines of therapy in CLL. Venclexta global sales were $505 million, up 21.2% on an operational basis. In CLL, we continue to see share gains in the U.S. and across all major international markets. We’re also seeing continued strong performance in AML. Venclexta is now approved in 80 countries and in many markets is already considered the new standard of care for frontline AML patients who are ineligible for intensive chemotherapy. As a result, we are seeing ramping market share throughout the countries where we have launched. In neuroscience, revenues were more than $1.6 billion, up 15.2% on an operational basis. Vraylar once again delivered strong growth. Sales of $492 million were up 13.9% on an operational basis, reflecting continued share gains in the U.S. atypical antipsychotic market. Our launch preparations remain well underway in anticipation of our MDD approval in the fourth quarter. This is a potentially large indication that would represent incremental upside to our current projections for Vraylar. Within migraine, Ubrelvy remains the market-leading oral CGRP treatment for acute migraine with revenue of $185 million, up 34% on a sequential basis. Qulipta continues to increase its leading new-to-brand share in the U.S. preventative CGRP class when we consider both, paid and bridge volume. We continue to make good progress with expanded commercial access, which will support strong Qulipta sales growth over the remainder of this year. We are also pursuing the commercial approval for Qulipta as a preventative treatment in patients with chronic migraine in the U.S. as well as a new therapy for Europe, potentially further strengthening our competitive product profile and long-term growth opportunity. Botox Therapeutic is also performing well in chronic migraine as well as its other indications with total sales of $678 million, up 14.5% on an operational basis. So overall, I’m pleased with the commercial execution across the therapeutic business. Our broad portfolio of differentiated therapies and new launches is demonstrating strong revenue growth. And with that, I’ll turn the call over to Tom for additional comments on our R&D programs. Tom?

Gonzalez: I think, if you look at the M&A environment, I think many players are trying to add to their portfolios. I think there’s less of an appetite for larger transactions right now in general across the industry. Some of that’s probably predicated on the fact that the FTC has been pretty tough in their language around larger kinds of transactions and your ability to be able to get those through. And I think as it relates to us, I mean, we have continued to execute the strategy that we put in place after the Allergan transaction. Allergan, obviously brought us a tremendous amount of diversity. That transaction has been highly successful and has really changed the look and the shape of AbbVie and it has clearly enhanced our performance, and we’ve done quite well. Our focus is continuing to look for opportunities to be able to fill out our portfolio in areas that we believe there are opportunities to bring in strategic assets. We’re probably working more on earlier-stage assets add to our R&D pipeline. Epcoritamab is a good example of the kinds of things that we’re out looking for and finding, to supplement the overall pipeline. I think that strategy has worked well, and it’s a strategy that we’ll continue to do going forward.

Gonzalez: Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone and thank you for joining us today. I'll provide perspective on our overall performance and outlook and then Jeff, Carrie, Tom and Rob, who will review our business highlights pipeline progress financial results and 2023 guidance in more detail. Today, we reported another strong quarter and a highly productive year for AbbVie. We delivered full year 2022 adjusted earnings per share of $13.77 reflecting double-digit growth. Total net revenues of more than $58 billion were up by 5.1% on an operational basis, driven by impressive growth from SKYRIZI and RINVOQ which generated nearly $7.7 billion of combined sales in 2022. As I reflect on our 10 years as an independent company, we have made excellent progress evolving AbbVie into a leading biopharmaceutical company. We have successfully created a well-diversified portfolio with multiple growth platforms in attractive and sustainable markets. This includes the rapid development and launch of SKYRIZI and RINVOQ across all of HUMIRA's major indications, plus a distinct new indication, atopic dermatitis. We anticipate these 2 products will collectively exceed the peak revenues achieved by HUMIRA by 2027 with significant growth expected through the end of the decade. We are also building a substantial portfolio of novel, heme and solid tumor assays for oncology. The anticipated launches and indication ramp of several new products like venetoclax in multiple myeloma and MDS, epacritumab across B-cell malignancies and Teliso-V, a new treatment option in non-small cell lung cancer will collectively support growth in the middle of the decade. We expect continued robust performance in neuroscience with our leading on-market portfolio to address migraine and psychiatric conditions as well as a promising pipeline for neurodegenerative diseases. And we see significant long-term growth potential for aesthetics, an extremely attractive market which is underpenetrated, where we have the leading position in toxins with BOTOX cosmetic and Fillers Rejuvido . Second, we've established a productive innovation-driven R&D organization with a robust pipeline. Our R&D engine has discovered and developed Five major billion-plus medicines over the past decade. We are committed to pursuing new ways to address patients' most serious health issues and have more than doubled our annual R&D investment since our inception. The breadth and the depth of our pipeline which now includes more than 80 programs across all development stages, further supports our long-term growth outlook. Lastly, we have maintained a strong financial position. to fully invest in innovative science and commercial initiatives across our therapeutic categories to drive long-term growth. We've also used that financial position to support a robust and growing dividend which we have increased by 270% since our inception. And we have also used it as capacity to pursue value-enhancing business development to augment our existing portfolio and pipeline. With these strong operating characteristics, we remain well positioned to absorb the impact of the HUMIRA LLE and quickly return to robust sales growth in 2025. As it pertains to AbbVie's near-term outlook, we anticipate 2023 adjusted earnings per share of $10.70 to $11.10. This guidance range contemplates, we expected headwind from direct biosimilar competition with U.S. HUMIRA sales down approximately 37% which is at the lower end of our previous erosion projection of 35% to 55%. Robust performance from SKYRIZI and RINVOQ which we expect will collectively generate $11.1 billion of revenue, reflecting year-over-year growth of nearly 45%. Revenue pressure in with recent challenging market and share dynamics impacting IMBLUVICA, partially offset by strong sales growth of venetoclax. Double-digit revenue growth of neuroscience including accelerating sales of Vraylar with our recent MDD approval. Our guidance also contemplates the transient economic impact primarily in the U.S. on aesthetic procedure growth, affecting near-term performance for toxins, fillers and body contouring. Given that it's difficult to predict the duration of economic and inflationary pressures, we have not assumed the recovery in 2023. And finally, this guidance reflects increasing investments in both R&D and SG&A to support our long-term growth opportunities. It's also important to note that while it is possible 2023 could outperform our guidance, depending upon the shape of the HUMIRA erosion curve. We don't anticipate that 2024 earnings will be lower than the $10.70 for of the 2023 adjusted earnings per share guidance which we are issuing today. In summary, we are executing well across our business and see numerous opportunities for our diverse portfolio to drive long-term growth. With that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff. Jeff?

Stewart: Thank you, Rick. I'll start with the quarterly results for immunology which delivered total revenues of more than $7.9 billion, up 19.5% on an operational basis. SKYRIZI and RINVOQ are performing exceptionally well, contributing more than $2.3 billion in combined sales this quarter, reflecting operational growth of 70%. SKYRIZI continues to exceed our expectations, outperforming our initial full year guidance by more than $750 million. Global revenues this quarter were nearly $1.6 billion, up 12.8% on a sequential basis. SKYRIZI is achieving strong market share momentum globally with in-play psoriatic disease leadership in 24 countries and total market share leadership in more than a dozen key markets. In psoriasis, SKYRIZI's total prescription share of the U.S. biologic psoriasis market has increased to more than 28%. And there is substantial room for continued growth in psoriasis based on SKYRIZI's leading in-play share of new and switching patients which remains at nearly 50%. Psoriatic arthritis is also providing a nice inflection to SKYRIZI sales, especially in the U.S. Dermatology segment, where we have achieved approximately 10% share of the total biologic market. And we are also seeing encouraging SKYRIZI new patient starts in the U.S. room segment as well which accounts for more than 80% of all PSA treatments. SKYRIZI is being co-positioned with RINVO to rheumatologists where these 2 products combined have already achieved a leading in-play PSA room share of approximately 16%. In Crohn's disease, we are making excellent progress with the U.S. launch. Feedback from gastroenterologists has been very positive, especially as it relates to SKYRIZI's novel dosing and overall clinical profile. We recently started DTC promotion for this indication and are already achieving a total in-play patient share of more than 15%. Turning now to invoke which delivered global sales of $770 million, representing double-digit sequential growth. In rheumatology, global prescriptions are ramping nicely across RINVOQ's 4 approved indications, RA, PSA, ankylosing spondylitis and non-radiographic axial SpA. We continue to see positive market share momentum in both the U.S. and across key international geographies. In atopic dermatitis, RINVOQ is demonstrating strong uptake in both treatment naive and second-line patients globally. Feedback from the global derm community supports the importance of RINVOQ as a long-term chronic therapy to control atopic dermatitis, especially as it relates to skin clearance and rapid itch relief. RINVOQ AD prescriptions are trending up globally with 20% to 35% in-place shares across our major international markets and a mid-teens in-place share in the U.S. which are both tracking in line with our expectations. In gastroenterology, the launch trends for RINVOQ in ulcerative colitis are very strong. Physicians have been pleased with RINVOQ's high rates of endoscopic healing as well as the speed of onset which has quickly resulted in RINVOQ achieving approximately 20% in-play share in the U.S. second line plus setting. Internationally, RINVOQ UC is now approved in 50 countries with reimbursement discussions progressing in line with our expectations. This strong adoption in UC amongst gastroenterologists is very encouraging for RINVOQ's potential in Crohn's disease as well. We are on track for U.S. and EMA regulatory decisions in the second quarter and are preparing for the commercial launch. Global HUMIRA sales were approximately $5.6 billion, up 6% on an operational basis with 9.9% growth in the U.S. partially offset by international, where revenues were down 16.9% operationally due to biosimilar competition. In the U.S., we have secured broad formulary access for HUMIRA encompassing more than 90% of all covered lives which enables us to compete for patient volume at parity to biosimilars. Turning now to hematologic oncology, where total revenues were $1.6 billion, down 11.2% on an operational basis. Imbruvica global revenues were approximately $1.1 billion, down 19.5%. The U.S. performance continues to be impacted by challenging market and share dynamics attributed to the pace of COVID recovery as well as increasing competition. Venclexta global sales were $56 million, up 12.2% on an operational basis, with continued strong demand in both AML and CLL. We are particularly pleased with the international performance driven by robust share gains in the EU and across Asia. In neuroscience, revenues were $1.7 billion, up 5.1% on an operational basis. Vraylar continues to demonstrate robust growth. Sales of $565 million were up 15.5% on an operational basis, reflecting increasing market share, primarily in bipolar 1 disorder. Vraylar was also recently approved as an adjunctive treatment for major depressive disorder, marking its fourth approved indication and adding a new substantial opportunity for long-term growth. We are very pleased with the AMDD label which confirms Vraylar's strong benefit risk profile, dosing flexibility with positive efficacy results for both the 1.5 and 3-milligram dose and the ability to reduce depressive symptoms as an add-on for the partial responders who present and this is important, with or without symptoms of anxiety. The AMDD launch is off to a strong start and we are already seeing a nice inflection in total new prescriptions in the marketplace. Within migraine, our leading oral CGRP portfolio contributed $249 million in combined sales this quarter, reflecting growth of nearly 30% as we continue to see strong prescription demand for both Ubrelvy and QULIPTA. We are also pursuing in the U.S. commercial approval for QULIPTA as a preventative treatment for patients with chronic migraine which would further strengthen our competitive profile and uniquely position QULIPTA as the only oral CGRP available as a preventative treatment for patients with both chronic and episodic migraine. Rounding out the migraine portfolio is BOTOX Therapeutic, a unique treatment with a dozen approved therapeutic indications and the clear branded leader in chronic migraine prevention. Total BOTOX Therapeutic sales were $728 million, up 10.7% on an operational basis. And last, we continue to prepare for the launch of ABBV-951 in both the U.S., Europe and Japan later this year. 951 represents a potentially transformative next-generation therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease and a $1 billion-plus peak sales opportunity. So overall, I'm pleased with the performance and the momentum across the therapeutic portfolio. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Carrie for additional comments on aesthetics. Carrie?

Strom: Thank you, Jeff. Full year 2022, global aesthetic sales were approximately $5.3 billion, reflecting growth of 5% on an operational basis. Global Botox cosmetic sales were approximately $2.6 billion, up nearly 21% operationally and global Juvederm sales were approximately $1.4 billion, down roughly 2% operationally. Our global aesthetics portfolio grew in 2022 despite several headwinds, most notably inflationary dynamics in the U.S., COVID-related lockdowns in China and suspension of our operations in Russia. In the U.S. we began to see a slowdown in aesthetic procedures in the second quarter of last year which coincided with the softening in economic metrics. These trends continued through the end of the year with the most significant impact on higher priced more deferrable procedures, including fillers and body contouring. Despite these economic pressures, U.S. Botox cosmetic sales grew approximately 16% in 2022, driven by strong first half sales with growth moderating over the remainder of the year. Similarly, U.S. Juvederm saw strong growth in the first quarter of the year but filler market declines throughout the second half of the year resulted in full year sales being down approximately 17% versus a robust 2021. We continue to track a number of key external economic metrics, including real personal consumption and the U.S. Consumer Confidence Index. While we have not seen major improvements in these metrics, data over the course of the last several months has shown stabilization. It remains difficult to predict the duration of these economic headwinds. But as Rick noted, we have modeled them to persist through the end of 2023. Our international aesthetics portfolio continued to demonstrate robust growth with the strong performance in most major markets, offsetting impacts from China and Russia. International Botox cosmetic sales of nearly $1 billion were up approximately 29% operationally and international Juvederm sales grew approximately 9% on an operational basis. We delivered this performance despite the significant headwinds we faced last year in our 2 largest international filler market, China and Russia. While our aesthetics portfolio in China continues to be impacted by COVID-related headwinds -- the current wave appears to have peaked. We expect the situation to improve through the first half of 2023 with full recovery in China beginning in the third quarter. Despite the transitory challenges we're facing, we remain confident in the long-term outlook for our aesthetics portfolio. Consumers continue to be very interested in the aesthetics category and in our brands. We see substantial room for further market penetration across each of our aesthetics categories and are continuing to invest to support long-term growth. Our promotional efforts are focused on driving more consumers into our customers' offices while increasing retention and productivity of existing patients. We have built a best-in-class commercial technology team known for developing our consumer loyalty program, Eli. We have over 5 million consumers who use Eli and more than 20,000 of our customers' offices. We have a series of new technology products launching this year to drive growth in the aesthetics market and support our customers and consumers. Internationally, we are focused on markets with significant growth potential. We have increased investments in injector training and expanded our field force in China which is our second largest market. Latin America which is very aesthetically oriented and Japan which is growing rapidly and is expected to be one of our fastest-growing markets in 2023. Additionally, we are focused on delivering new product innovation. This year, we're launching 2 new fillers in the U.S., VOLUX for improvement of jawline which was approved late last year and Skin Vive for enhanced skin quality attributes, including hydration which is expected to be approved in the first half of 2023. We're also continuing to launch Harmonica, our hybrid bio-stimulatory HA filler in several international markets. The investments we're making to support long-term growth for our aesthetics portfolio, along with the stabilizing economic outlook and improving tobidynamics in China, leave us well positioned for future growth.

Hudson: Thank you, Carrie. We expect significant program advancement across all stages of our pipeline this year. In immunology, we continue to make very good progress with programs in our core diseases as well as in adjacent areas of rheumatology and dermatology, where we are expanding our portfolio. We're nearing completion of SKYRIZI's registrational program in ulcerative colitis which is the last major indication expansion program for SKYRIZI. In the first half of this year, we'll see data from the Phase III induction and maintenance studies for SKYRIZI in ulcerative colitis with our regulatory submissions anticipated later this year. We'll also see data this year from our head-to-head comparison studies evaluating SKYRIZI versus other commonly used agents which we expect will further distinguish its profile from competitive offerings. These studies include our Phase III trial in Crohn's disease versus STELARA and our Phase III trial in psoriasis versus Otezla. Results from these studies will add to the body of evidence supporting SKARIZI as a best-in-category agent in these indications. We're also nearing completion of the core indication expansion programs for RINVOQ. Our regulatory applications for RINVOQ and Crohn's disease are under review and we anticipate approval decisions in the second quarter. RINVOQ demonstrated very strong rates of remission and endoscopic improvement in our Phase III induction and maintenance studies and we believe RINVOQ will be an important new treatment option once approved in Crohn's disease. This is a market where approximately 80% of bioexperience patients have used the TNF inhibitor and there remains considerable unmet need for therapies that can deliver high rates of response and long-term remission. Beyond our core immunology indications, we're developing RINVOQ in several diseases where we've seen strong evidence that our JAK inhibitor has the potential to become a highly effective therapy. Our Phase III program is already underway in 1 of these indications, giant cell arteritis. And later this year, we plan to begin Phase III studies for 4 additional diseases, systemic lupus, hidradenitis suppurativa, vitiligo and alopecia areata. Moving now to our oncology portfolio, where we expect several important regulatory and clinical milestones this year. In the area of hematology oncology, we'll see data from several Phase III studies, including results from Venclexta's event-driven de novo trial in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma patients with a T114 mutation and Navitoclax' TRANSFORM-1 trial in frontline myelofibrosis. Results from these studies are expected to support regulatory submissions in the second half of the year for Venclexta and navitoclax in their respective indications. We also anticipate regulatory approval this year for epcoritamab in relapsed/refractory large B-cell lymphoma in several major geographies, including the U.S. in the second quarter and in Europe and Japan in the second half of the year. Based on the very deep and drillable responses demonstrated thus far in our clinical program, we believe that epcoritamab has the potential to significantly improve upon treatment options for these patients. We believe that epcoritamab has the potential to become a core therapy for B-cell malignancies. And we continue to make very good progress, expanding our development programs for epcoritamab across several indications. Over the course of 2023, we expect to begin several new studies, including a Phase III study in frontline DLBCL in combination with R-CHOP and multiple Phase II studies in CLL and MCL. We remain very excited about epcroritumab's potential to become a best-in-class therapy across multiple B-cell malignancies and look forward to providing updates on these programs as the data mature. Now moving our solid tumor pipeline. We remain on track to see data later this year from our Phase II study evaluating Teliso-V in second-line plus advanced non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer. As a reminder, we received a breakthrough therapy designation for Teliso-V, our c-Met ADC, based on the encouraging results from Stage 1 of this Phase II study and the data we'll see later this year has the potential to support an accelerated approval. Our Phase III confirmatory study in patients with overexpressed c-MET is also ongoing. Treatment options for these cancer patients who have exhausted platinum-based chemotherapy, immunotherapy and targeted therapy are very limited and prognosis for these patients is extremely poor. As a targeted therapy for patients with overexpressed cement which represents approximately 25% of the non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer population, we believe Teliso-V has the potential to become an important new treatment option for these patients. We're also making good progress with our next-generation c-MET ADC, ABBV-400 which utilizes a more potent topoisomerase inhibitor payload, to potentially drive deeper tumor responses as well as broaden the range of solid tumors where c-MET therapies can be used such as gastroesophageal and colorectal tumors. We expect to see early data from our Phase I program in 2024. Elsewhere in the solid tumor pipeline, we have begun to see encouraging data from several programs which we plan to advance into Phase II studies this year. Our anti-GARP antibody, ABBV-151 is showing strong signals of activity, including deep responses with prolonged durability. Based on this preliminary efficacy, we plan to initiate Phase II studies in several tumor types. We also plan to advance ABBV-647 into Phase II dose optimizing studies this year based on the promising results from our early stage program. This ADC targets PTK7 which is a subset of non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer and represents approximately 25% of patients and has little overlap with c-MetSo our c-Met ADCs and PTK7 ADC combined will target approximately 45% of non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer patients. Now moving to neuroscience, where we recently received FDA approval for Vraylar as an adjunctive treatment for major depressive disorder which marks its fourth indication approval. We're very excited by this approval and pleased with the label which highlights Real or strong benefit risk profile in this indication. Vraylar is an important new treatment option for patients who are currently taking an antidepressant but continue to have unresolved depression symptoms. We also recently received approval in Japan for ABBV-951, our novel subcutaneous levodopa carbidopa delivery system for treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease. This innovative approach to delivering DUOPA-LIKE efficacy through a subcutaneous delivery system represents a potentially transformative improvement to current treatment options. With a less invasive, nonsurgical delivery system, it also has the potential to significantly expand the patient population currently addressed by DUOPA or other more invasive therapies for advanced PD patients such as deep brain stimulation. We remain on track for approval decisions this year in both the U.S. and Europe. In the U.S., we anticipate approval in the first half of the year, with product launch expected in the second half after we secured reimbursement. And in Europe, we anticipate approval in the fourth quarter of this year. And in the area of migraine, we remain on track for an FDA approval decision in the second quarter of this year for QULIPTA as a preventive treatment for patients with chronic migraine. In Europe, we anticipate an approval decision in the third quarter for atogepant as a preventive treatment for patients with both chronic and episodic migraine. If approved, this would be another differentiating feature for Lipa as it would be the only oral CGRP approved for prevention in patients with chronic migraine. This is a common and debilitating disease that significantly impacts quality of life and we look forward to make this new oral treatment option available to patients once approved. And in our aesthetics pipeline, we expect to see results this year from several toxin programs including data from our Phase III study for Botox in platysma prominence with regulatory submission in the U.S. expected near the end of 2023 as well as data from our Phase III study for BOTOX in masseter muscle prominence, where we expect to submit regulatory applications in certain international markets in the second half of the year, including China and Canada. These 2 novel indications for prominent neck and jaw muscles will help to further build our portfolio in the lower phase segment. We'll also see data from our Phase III trial for Bot-AE or short-acting toxin in glabellar lines near the end of this year with regulatory applications plan for 2024. So in summary, we continue to demonstrate significant progress across all stages of our pipeline and anticipate numerous important regulatory and clinical milestones again in 2023. With that, I'll turn the call over to Rob for additional comments on our fourth quarter performance and our 2023 financial outlook. Rob?

Michael: Thank you, Tom. AbbVie's performance and financial foundation remains strong with our leadership positions across a diverse portfolio, we are well positioned to return to robust growth by 2025. Starting with fourth quarter results, we reported adjusted earnings per share of $3.60 which is $0.07 above our guidance midpoint. These results include a $0.13 unfavorable impact from acquired IPR&D expense. Total net revenues were $15.1 billion, up 3.8% on an operational basis, excluding a 2.2% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. The adjusted operating margin ratio was 52.1% of sales. This includes adjusted gross margin of 86% of sales, adjusted R&D investment of 11.5% of sales, acquired IPR&D expense of 1.6% of sales and adjusted SG&A expense of 20.8% of sales. Net interest expense was $476 million and the adjusted tax rate was 13.4%. Turning to our financial outlook for 2023. Our full year adjusted earnings per share guidance is between $10.70 and $11.10. This earnings per share guidance does not include an estimate for acquired IPR&D expense that may be incurred throughout the year. We expect net revenues of approximately $52 billion. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a neutral impact on full year sales growth. This revenue forecast comprehends the following approximate assumptions for our key products and therapeutic areas. We expect immunology sales of $24.8 billion, including SKYRIZI sales of $7.4 billion, reflecting growth of more than $2.2 billion due to strong market share performance across all approved indications. RINVOQ revenue of $3.7 billion, reflecting growth of more than 45% with continued indication expansion and HUMIRA sales of $13.7 billion, including U.S. erosion of 37% and following a loss of exclusivity in late January. With 1 biosimilar currently in the market and potentially 9 more biosimilars available in the middle of the year, we anticipate that sales erosion will be more heavily weighted towards the second half of 2023. In hematologic oncology, we expect VENCLEXTA sales of $2.2 billion and revenue of $3.5 billion. For aesthetics, we expect sales of $5.2 billion, including $2.5 billion from Botox Cosmetic and $1.4 billion from Juvederm, with growth rates expected to improve when we lap the market slowdown in the middle of the year. For neuroscience, we expect revenue of $7.2 billion representing growth of more than 10%, including Botox Therapeutic sales of $2.8 billion, Vraylar sales of $2.5 billion and total oral CGRP revenue of $1.1 billion, including Ubrelvy growth of approximately 17.5%. For eye care, we expect sales of $2.2 billion and we expect Mavyret revenue of $1.4 billion. Moving to the P&L for 2023. We are forecasting full year adjusted gross margin of 84% of sales, adjusted R&D investment of $6.8 billion and adjusted SG&A expense of $12.4 billion. We forecast an adjusted operating margin ratio of 47% of sales. This profile includes a 70 basis point benefit that is fully offset in tax expense given the transition of Puerto Rico's excise tax to an income tax effective at the beginning of this year. We expect adjusted net interest expense of $1.8 billion and we forecast our non-GAAP tax rate to be 15.3%, including an impact of 1.3 points from the Puerto Rico tax transition. Finally, we expect our share count to be roughly flat to 2022. Turning to the first quarter. We anticipate net revenues of $11.8 billion. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a 1% unfavorable impact on sales growth. This revenue forecast comprehends the following approximate assumptions for our key therapeutic areas. Immunology sales of $5.5 billion which includes U.S. HUMIRA erosion of 27%, Oncology revenue of $1.4 billion. Aesthetic sales approaching $1.2 billion; Neuroscience revenue of $1.5 billion; and eye care sales approaching $600 million. We are forecasting an adjusted operating margin ratio of 46% of sales and we model a non-GAAP tax rate of 13.3%. We expect adjusted earnings per share between $2.39 and $2.49. This guidance does not include acquired IPR&D expense that may be incurred in the quarter. Finally, AbbVie's strong business performance and outlook continues to support our capital allocation priorities. We expect to generate adjusted free cash flow of nearly $19 billion in 2023 which is net of $1.4 billion in SKYRIZI royalty payments. This cash flow will fully support a strong and growing dividend which we have increased by 270% since inception, continued debt repayment, where we expect to pay down $4 billion in maturities this year bringing our cumulative debt reduction to $34 billion. Our strong cash flow also provides capacity for continued business development to further augment our portfolio. In closing, we are very pleased with AbbVie's strong results in 2022. And with our diverse portfolio, we continue to be well positioned to deliver long-term growth.

Bansal: And so maybe a question -- a bigger question for Rick. So AbbVie -- when we talk to investors, AbbVie has always been 1 of those. The R&D as a percent of sales has always been low. And right now, even it is still less than 15% and that's the pushback we get that the company cannot grow organically. And in some ways, you have always been playing defensive given that since inception, HUMIRA has always been an issue. Now that you're beginning to get past that, do you think something you'll change -- you want to change fundamentally with the company and the way you allocate internal versus external R&D spend?

Shibutani: You previously commented about the operating margin trajectory of '23 into '24. I believe characterizing them is basically flattish. Is that still the case? And then across the immunology category broadly, we're seeing some -- a lot of cross-currency mix dynamics, clearly, with your portfolio being part of that. What is your expectation about the potential for some of the newer mechanisms that are emerging with clinical data. Are you keen to figure out whether you want to invoke those as part of your portfolio? What do you see the outlook for novel mechanisms, given that we're going to have some biosimilars to some of the most standard of care approaches

Michael: Chris, this is Rob. I'll take your first question. I think for modeling purposes, I would expect operating margins stay roughly at this level in '24 and then begin expanding again in with our return to robust sales growth. I think the pace of that expansion will depend on investment needs as we will always prioritize R&D and SG&A investment to drive long-term growth but that's the best way to think through '24 and then what the operating margin will look like in '25 and beyond.

Stewart: And Chris, it's Jeff. I'll maybe kick off on your immunology question and then ask Tom to comment on some dynamics as well. So it is very, very clear that certainly in the midterm, the most excitement across these immunology categories are for SKYRIZI and RINVOQ. It's quite striking. And I think Tom mentioned there's still incredible interest in a next wave of dermatologic indications that follow on for atopic dermatitis that he highlighted. And really, as I noted in my remarks, I mean, the amount of excitement around the IL-23 and particularly our IL-23 across these indications is really profound. Now having said that, we are watching the competitive landscape for some maybe potentially some novel orals. We don't see them as major players. As we look deeper in the pipeline, we can see that there is the possibility for combination use of novel biologics or biomarker-driven approaches, particularly in IBD. And we monitor those very carefully as we look at our long-range plan. And Tom, I don't know if you want to address some of the things that are back in our pipeline in terms of immunology.

Michael: Thank you, Rick. We're off to an excellent start in 2023 with each of our 5 key therapeutic areas meeting or exceeding our first quarter expectations, a testament to the strength of our broad portfolio. We delivered adjusted earnings per share of $2.46, which is $0.10 above our guidance midpoint. Total net revenues were $12.2 billion, approximately $400 million ahead of our expectations. First quarter results include continued robust performance from Skyrizi and Rinvoq, which remain on track to contribute more than $11 billion in combined sales this year. Growth rates in the first quarter for both products are consistent with our full year expectations. Skyrizi and Rinvoq are demonstrating momentum across all approved indications and we expect to round out their opportunities in IBD later this year. This includes Rinvoq's anticipated U.S. approval in Crohn's disease as well as Skyrizi's European launch in Crohn's and its global regulatory submission in UC. We are also performing exceptionally well in neuroscience. Total net revenues this quarter were nearly $200 million above our guidance with Vraylar sales accelerating following MDD approval and migraine delivering strong growth. As a result, we will be increasing our full year outlook for neuroscience. Aesthetics is also performing better than expected. We are seeing positive recovery trends in China and some stability in the U.S. market, where we are closely monitoring several economic indicators that correlate with aesthetics procedures, including consumer confidence, personal consumption and Google searches. Although it's still early in the year, these positive trends, especially across our international markets, give us the confidence to increase our full year outlook for aesthetics as well. This continues to be an underpenetrated market with significant growth potential. Based on our robust performance this quarter and the continued strong outlook for our business, we are raising our full year adjusted earnings per share guidance by $0.10 and now expect adjusted earnings per share between $10.72 and $11.12. In closing, I'm extremely pleased with the performance of our diverse portfolio. We're off to a strong start to the year, which further reinforces our confidence in the long-term outlook of the business. With that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff for additional comments on our commercial highlights. Jeff?

Stewart: Thank you, Rob. I'm very pleased with the strong commercial execution across our therapeutic portfolio. Immunology delivered total revenues of approximately $5.6 billion with continued robust double-digit growth from Skyrizi and Rinvoq. Skyrizi global sales were nearly $1.4 billion, reflecting operational growth of more than 46%, despite retail inventory destocking in the quarter. Skyrizi is the clear market leader in the U.S. biologic psoriasis market with a total prescription share now at 30%. In psoriasis, Skyrizi has set a very high bar relative to other therapies on the market or in development with differentiated attributes across the categories that physicians and patients deem most important. This includes the rapid onset of action after the first dose, nearly complete skin clearance with multifold higher rates on PASI 90 and PASI 100. High durability of response, which we have demonstrated can increase over time as well as quarterly dosing for maintenance therapy, a convenient alternative to daily oral or more frequently administered injectables. With a nearly 50% U.S. in-play share of new and switching patients, there is substantial room for Skyrizi's continued growth in psoriasis. This best-in-class profile is supporting strong momentum now in psoriatic arthritis with Skyrizi achieving an in-play biologic share of roughly 20% in the U.S. dermatology segment. Skyrizi is also being co-positioned with Rinvoq in the U.S. room segment in PSA where we are seeing increasing utilization among rheumatologists as well. Globally, Skyrizi has achieved in-play psoriatic disease leadership in more than 25 countries and total market share leadership in nearly 20 of those key markets. In Crohn's disease, we are seeing very fast adoption of Skyrizi in the U.S., with a total in-play patient share at approximately 20%, second only to STELARA. Feedback from gastroenterologists is very positive, especially as it relates to Skyrizi's novel dosing and overall clinical profile. We see strong uptake in Japan and Canada as well with the European launch forthcoming. We also recently reported strong induction data for Skyrizi in ulcerative colitis, which Tom will discuss momentarily. Based on the results of that trial, it is increasingly clear that Skyrizi represents a differentiated asset across inflammatory bowel disease and we look forward to bringing this potential new indication to physicians and patients next year. Turning now to Rinvoq, which delivered global sales of $686 million, reflecting operational growth of more than 50% despite similar retail inventory destocking in the quarter. I'm very pleased with the performance in rheumatology with total prescriptions increasing across each of the 4 approved indications. Atopic dermatitis is also tracking in line with our expectations. We continue to see market share momentum globally, including in-play patient share increasing to approximately 17% in the U.S. We are very excited about the growth potential in gastroenterology. Rinvoq has set a high bar for efficacy in both ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, demonstrating strong rates of remission and endoscopic improvement. We're seeing very strong momentum in UC, where adoption has been robust. Rinvoq is now achieving a 23% in-play share in the U.S. second-line plus setting, reflecting an impressive ramp since our launch in UC less than 1 year ago. This accelerated adoption among gastroenterologists is very encouraging for Rinvoq's pending outlook in Crohn's. We are currently launching this indication in the EU, a geography where Rinvoq is the only JAK approved to treat both IBD conditions, and we remain on track for CD approval and commercialization in the U.S. later this quarter with broad formulary access anticipated to ramp quickly over the back half of this year. So we see inflammatory bowel disease continues to be an area of high unmet need. Having 2 novel therapies in IBD with Skyrizi and Rinvoq that each deliver differentiated levels of efficacy is an important step forward for patients. And with these 2 complementary assets, we are very well positioned to compete against other oral or biological agents. Global Humira sales were approximately $3.5 billion, down 24.3% on an operational basis due to biosimilar competition. Erosion in the U.S. remains in line with our expectations with most of the impact driven by price. Turning now to hematologic oncology, where total revenues were $1.4 billion with continued pressure on Imbruvica, partially offset by robust double-digit growth with Venclexta. Imbruvica global revenues were $878 million, down 25.2% due to increasing competition and the cumulative impact of a suppressed market. Venclexta global sales were $538 million, up 17.5% on an operational basis with strong momentum across both AML and CLL. In neuroscience, revenues were approximately $1.7 billion, up 15% on an operational basis. Vraylar is performing exceptionally well. Sales of $561 million were up 31.3% on an operational basis, above our expectations. We are very pleased with the AMDD label and the launch, which has resulted in a significant uplift in total new prescriptions for Vraylar. With a dedicated sales force that calls on both psychiatrists and primary care as well as ramping DTC promotion, we see an opportunity for accelerated growth across all approved indications. And we will be raising our full year guidance for Vraylar accordingly. Within migraine, we remain uniquely positioned with a portfolio to support complete migraine freedom. Our leading oral CGRP therapies contributed $218 million in combined sales this quarter, reflecting growth of more than 45% as we continue to see strong prescription demand for both Ubrelvy and Qulipta. We recently expanded the label for Qulipta, which is now uniquely positioned as the only oral CGRP available as a preventative treatment for patients with both chronic and episodic migraine further strengthening our competitive profile. Lastly, total Botox Therapeutic sales were $719 million, reflecting strong performance in chronic migraine as well as other approved indications. So overall, I'm extremely pleased with the performance across the therapeutic portfolio. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Carrie for additional comments on aesthetics. Carrie?

Strom: Thank you, Jeff. First quarter Global aesthetics sales were approximately $1.3 billion, which came in ahead of our guidance, primarily due to a faster reopening in China as well as a slightly stronger economy in the U.S. versus our planning assumption. In the U.S., aesthetics sales were $777 million, down 8.1% as we continue to see softness in aesthetics procedures related to inflationary dynamics. As a reminder, we saw a very robust performance for our U.S. performance in the first quarter of 2022, which created difficult comparison for growth in the first quarter of this year. U.S. Botox Cosmetic sales were $409 million, down slightly on a year-over-year basis. We continue to see a lesser impact from inflationary dynamics on Botox Cosmetic compared to other areas of our aesthetics portfolio due to its relatively lower price point and large install base of loyal repeat consumers. The U.S. cosmetic toxin market was down low single digits in the first quarter on a year-over-year basis. Botox Cosmetic continues be the clear market leader and its share of the U.S. toxin market remains stable. Sales for our U.S. Juvederm collection were down 18% as our dermal filler portfolio continues to be impacted by inflationary pressure on consumer spending. The U.S. filler market was down nearly 20% in the quarter on a year-over-year basis due to the persistent inflationary environment. Our Juvederm collection remains the clear market leader and share was stable in the quarter. The economic pressure on our U.S. dermal filler business is partially offset in the quarter by strong initial uptake for our recently launched Volux filler, which is approved for the improvement of jawline definition. We expect Volux combined with the upcoming launch of our skin quality injectable to support long-term growth for our filler portfolio in the U.S. While the aesthetics category in the U.S. continues to be challenged due to the fast economy, the key external economic metrics that we track have remained relatively consistent with year-end 2022 levels. Our international aesthetics portfolio continues to demonstrate robust growth with strong performance in Japan, which is rapidly growing and China, which is recovering faster than expected. Sales from our international aesthetics portfolio were $523 million, up 7.8% on an operational basis. International Botox Cosmetics sales grew approximately 17.5% operationally, and international Juvederm sales were down approximately 1.4% on an operational basis. China, which is our second largest market, was negatively impacted by COVID in January and February, but experienced a sharp recovery in March. We expect this level of activity to be sustained throughout the remainder of the year. Recall, our original guidance assumed we would not reach a full recovery until the second half of this year. And in Japan, which is an underdeveloped market and proving to be very responsive to promotion, we continue to make significant investments in injector training, our field force and consumer education. Overall, we are pleased with how our team has been executing through this dynamic environment and remain encouraged by improving trends internationally and stabilization across our U.S. portfolio. These positive trends and continued strong momentum give us the confidence to increase the full year outlook for our aesthetics business. Longer term, we remain extremely confident in our ability to grow the aesthetics business and continue to expect to achieve total sales of more than $9 billion by the end of this decade. Aesthetics continues to be an extremely attractive underpenetrated market and our proven ability to drive consumer demand and develop a strong base of loyal customers as well as bring innovative new products to the market will support robust growth over the long term.

Flynn: Great. Maybe 2 for me. Just on immunology, can you quantify the amount of destocking for both Skyrizi and Rinvoq in the quarter? I think Biogen on their call spoke to some tighter working capital requirements at wholesalers due to rising interest rates. So just wondering if you're seeing something similar here and just to want to be sure that it's not a pricing dynamic. And then can you elaborate at all about your ALS program when we might see some data there?

Michael: Terence, it's Rob. So on the retail inventory destocking, we do typically see this in the first quarter, so it wasn't a complete surprise. In fact, it was factored into our guidance. We did beat our guidance in immunology for the quarter. The impact was high single digits, both for Skyrizi and Rinvoq. In terms of absolute value, we're talking about around $70 million for Skyrizi and $30 million for

Stewart: And it's Jeff. Just to clarify on your wholesale comment, I think, as Rob highlighted, it's in the retail. So it's in the specialty pharmacy channel. And you'll recall, as you know, there's about 18 specialty pharmacies that basically distribute the I&I products, and there are some big ones there. So it was not a wholesaler dynamic. It was a retail inventory dynamic, which, again, as these products get bigger, we do see and contemplate in our projections.

Michael: And then Terence, this is Rob. Just to more broadly answer the question that I'm sure many investors have. If you look at the growth in the quarter, so overall, U.S. demand was up just north of 60% for Rinvoq and Skyrizi. We saw very strong performance across all approved indications, as Jeff highlighted. We did have the 2 partial offsets, one being the retail inventory destock, which I've already quantified. And then price was down high single digits and that's really driven by rebate increases, which is typical when we see the type of volume increase. And we saw Skyrizi sales up 80% last year, Rinvoq in the U.S. up 40% last year. So when you see that kind of volume growth and couple that with the number of indications we had approved, we had 5 new indications for Rinvoq and 2 for Skyrizi. So it was something we were contemplating. It was factored into our guidance, but I don't know that The Street fully appreciated that in terms of the first quarter estimates that were put out there.

Hudson: This is Tom for the ALS question. I'd say about 2 years, we had to recruit the patients and there's about a year of follow-up that is needed. So I would say, late '24, early '25, all depends on the enrollment, which

Scala: A couple of questions. Some of your peers have called out co-pay resets early in the year that have led to more modest performances in products such as Dupixent and Cosentyx. AbbVie has been less vocal on this point. How much was that a factor? Or are Skyrizi and Rinvoq different in some way? And then secondly, despite the solid performance in Q1, the EPS guidance range continues to be very wide. What factors would have to play out for you to hit the high end of that and the low end of that?

Michael: And Steve, this is Rob, on your EPS range question. We've typically given a $0.20 range; this year, we gave a $0.40 range. And the key driver of that is obviously the U.S. Humira dynamics. As we see that play out, particularly in the second half, we would typically tighten that range. Now keep in mind, that $0.20 wider range represents about 1% of U.S. Humira growth. So it's not as wide as you might think. But we did widen it given the dynamics of U.S. Humira. And I think we'll be able to give you more color as we see those 7, 9 biosimilars coming in the market in the middle of the year.

Schott: Just coming back to Skyrizi and Rinvoq, I think you mentioned high single-digit price erosion beyond just those inventory changes. I guess is that a reasonable assumption to think about price as we progress through the rest of this year? And then maybe longer term, should we think about that level of price erosion as more like a onetime kind of issue this year given all the new indications and a more stable trend going forward? I'm just trying to kind of get my hands around the pricing a little bit more. And my second question was on the aesthetics business. You obviously saw a very strong 1Q. Can you just elaborate a little bit more on your confidence in the sustainability of these trends? I know the market has been a little bit bumpy, but it seems like the tone is that you're encouraged with the trends you're seeing. But just how much, I guess, visibility you have in terms of sustainability of those favorable international trends we're seeing right now?

Michael: Chris, this is Rob. So on your question on price, yes, the way to think about 2023 price for the year for Skyrizi and Rinvoq would be down high single digits. Now we wouldn't expect high single digits to be the rate going forward given a big driver was the number of new indications that we launched. And so I would expect that to moderate over time. Carrie?

Hudson: This is Tom. Regarding the question on our triplet program, yes, we are -- our C2 corrector that we just tested did not work. This was not our first attempt that producing one and we do not have another backup.

Wong: This is Carson on for Trung. Just on Imbruvica, how confident are you for the hem-onc guide given the significant competitive pressures there? I mean I understand Brukinsa did particularly have legs in the U.S. until late January. What level of pricing pressures can we expect through the year? And is there a potential for further step downs in your guide for later in the year? And if you do that, could the trough be pushed out given the delay with 951 as well?

Stewart: Yes. It's Jeff. And I think we think that's a very good call. And just as a reminder, we're not seeing significant pricing pressure in the market. This is really two effects, which is one, the cumulative effect as we've highlighted over the suppressed market over time, which looks to be normalizing. Actually, for the first time in 3 years, we actually saw a positive growth in the market. So that's encouraging. The big driver is the share -- is the new patient share, which has been under pressure, initially under pressure by Calquence certainly from our own Venclexta and then the recent Brukinsa launch. And so when we put all of that into the calculus, we think we've got it right and it's probably unlikely that we're going to see any significant step down that would put that in jeopardy.

Michael: Carson, this is Rob. I'll answer your second question. So I wouldn't consider Imbruvica in 951 to be variables that would push the trough out. It's really more about how the overall year plays out, particularly the second half with U.S. Humira. So if U.S. Humira does better and we outperform in '23, then we could see the trough in '24. I think the important thing to keep in mind is regardless of when the trough occurs, we wouldn't expect earnings to fall below the . That's really what I would focus on, and we don't consider Imbruvica in 951 delays to be variables that would push that trough.

Stewart: It's Jeff. Thank you for the question. First, these are very small indications. So to give you some sense of the relative size for Imbruvica, MCL is about 4% of the value. MDL is really less than 1% or about 1%. So we don't anticipate that those withdrawals due to the fact that we didn't get the confirmatory studies to clear, we'll have a material impact. I think it's also important to note that many physicians will continue these patients on the medication. They won't be all switched, for example, or taken off and put on another product. That's the market intelligence. There's no requirement that they need to do that for the physicians. And so net-net, this is not a really material issue given the size of those indications.

Stewart: Thank you, Rob. I'll start with immunology, which delivered total revenues of $6.8 billion, exceeding our expectations. Skyrizi continues to perform exceptionally well. Global sales were approximately $1.9 billion, reflecting very strong operational growth of 51%. Our performance in psoriasis continues to be impressive. Total prescription share in the U.S. biologic market is now at 32%, double the share of the next closest biologic therapy. When you consider that Skyrizi is capturing roughly one out of two every in-play patient, which are either new to therapy or switching, there remains substantial opportunity for continued robust sales growth. And based on the available clinical data we are seeing from emerging competitive therapies in psoriasis, including orals, we feel very confident in Skyrizi's long-term potential with robust sales growth expected through the early part of the next decade. We are also seeing very nice prescription growth in psoriatic arthritis, especially in the U.S. dermatology segment where Skyrizi is approaching the leading new patient biologic market share. Skyrizi's momentum across psoriatic disease is very solid globally as well with total in-play share leadership in nearly 30 key countries. Turning now to IBD, where Skyrizi has demonstrated a very compelling clinical profile, including strong endoscopic data paired with convenient dosing. Uptake in Crohn's disease has been rapid, with total in-play patient share of approximately 25% in the U.S., roughly at parity leadership with Stelara. This uptake is very encouraging for Skyrizi's potential in ulcerative colitis, where we recently reported positive maintenance data with approval and commercialization anticipated next year. Given the momentum we are seeing across all of the approved indications, we will be raising our full year sales outlook for Skyrizi. Moving now to Rinvoq which delivered global sales of $918 million, reflecting operational growth of nearly 57%. A key element of Rinvoq's success is its strong differentiation. It is now approved across seven distinct indications, including four in rheumatology, two in IBD as well as atopic dermatitis. It's the only potent daily oral medication with compelling head-to-head data against multiple novel therapies, including superiority to Humira in RA and Dupixent in AD. It's the only JAK inhibitor now approved to treat both Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. And we have established strong and broad commercial access for each of the core diseases with formulary coverage for Crohn's expected to ramp quickly over the next months. As it pertains to Rinvoq's book performance, we are seeing increasing prescriptions across each of the room indications globally, further market share momentum in atopic dermatitis, including now high-teens in-play patient share in the U.S. and robust uptake in IBD, where Rinvoq has demonstrated strong rates of remission and endoscopic improvement. Rinvoq is now capturing roughly one out of every four in-play ulcerative colitis patients in the second line plus setting. And the early data for Crohn's, which launched just in May, also shows a very strong ramp in new patient starts. We remained well positioned for continued momentum in this new indication as the only jack inhibitor approved to treat Crohn's disease. This level of performance, along with the development of ongoing projects across several other diseases, such as giant cell arteritis and systemic lupus in rheumatology and multiple additional derm indications, reinforces the long-term potential for Rinvoq with strong sales growth expected through the early part of the next decade. Global Humira sales were $4 billion, down 24.8% on an operational basis due to biosimilar competition. Erosion in the U.S. remains slightly better than our expectations due to volume with the vast majority of the impact this quarter driven by price. Turning now to hematologic oncology, where total revenues were approaching $1.5 billion. Imbruvica global revenues were $907 million, down 20.8%, consistent with our expectations. Venclexta global sales were $571 million, up 15% on an operational basis with strong demand for both CLL and AML, and we are particularly pleased with the international performance here, following continued reimbursement progress in the EU and inclusion in China's national reimbursement list. We also recently received the U.S. approval for Epkinly in third line plus DLBCL further expanding our on-market portfolio in hem onc. Early prescription trends have been encouraging, with a more robust opportunity expected as we progress development in earlier lines of therapy. We also anticipate approval and commercialization in Europe and Japan later this year. In neuroscience, revenues were nearly $1.9 billion, up 14.2% on an operational basis. Vraylar continues to exceed our expectations. Sales of $658 million were up 33.9% on an operational basis with increasing momentum across all indications following the MDD approval late last year. Within migraine, we remain the clear market leader with unique treatment options for both acute and chronic conditions. Our oral CGRP portfolio contributed $292 million in combined sales this quarter reflecting growth of more than 30% as we continue to see strong prescription demand for both Ubrelvy and Qulipta. Lastly, total Botox Therapeutic sales were $748 million, up 11.3% on an operational basis, reflecting nice momentum in chronic migraine as well as other approved indications. This franchise continues to outperform our expectations, and we will be raising our full year guidance for the collective neuroscience portfolio. So overall, I'm extremely pleased with the performance and execution across the therapeutic portfolio with growth expected to accelerate through the second half of the year. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Carrie for additional comments on aesthetics. Carrie?

Strom: Thank you, Jeff. Second quarter global aesthetics sales were approximately $1.4 billion up 2.9% on an operational basis with strong performance from our international portfolio offsetting the economic impact in the U.S. U.S. aesthetic sales were $829 million, down 6.2%. Our U.S. portfolio continues to perform well from a competitive perspective. And as expected, the aesthetics markets continued to be impacted by lower consumer spending related to inflationary pressures, which weighed on year-over-year growth rates. U.S. Botox cosmetic sales were $420 million, a decline of 6.5% versus the prior year. While the U.S. cosmetic toxin market declined low single digits in the second quarter on a year-over-year basis, growth rates improved through the quarter, with June showing a return to positive year-over-year market growth. Botox Cosmetic continues to be the clear market leader, maintaining strong and stable share despite new competitive entrants. U.S. Juvederm sales were $125 million, down 14.5% on a year-over-year basis as we continue to see a more pronounced impact from inflationary dynamics on higher-priced, more deferrable procedures such as Filler. The U.S. Filler market declined approximately 20% in the quarter on a year-over-year basis due to the persistent inflationary environment. Our Juvederm collection remains market leader and share was stable in the quarter. The economic metrics that we track for the U.S. have largely stabilized. Our consumer market research shows a meaningful recovery from last summer and those intending to get treated with toxins and fillers. Additionally, we have now lapped the beginning of the market downturn, which occurred in the second quarter of last year. Based on these factors, we expect growth rates for the U.S. facial injectables to improve in the second half of this year. Our international aesthetics portfolio continues to perform exceptionally well with strong results in many key markets. Second quarter sales were $555 million, reflecting operational growth of nearly 20%. The International Botox cosmetic sales of $265 million increased approximately 14% on an operational basis and International Juvederm sales were $243 million, up approximately 28% on an operational basis. Growth in the Asia Pacific region, particularly robust as aesthetic treatment rates in China have fully recovered to pre-COVID levels. We continue to anticipate strong normalized growth through the remainder of the year in China. We are very pleased with the strong performance of our international aesthetics portfolio over the first half of the year and continue to expect similarly strong results in the second half. In the third quarter, we will be facing a challenging year-over-year comparison due to a shipment timing benefit we saw in the third quarter of 2022. This is expected to result in relatively flat growth for our international portfolio in the third quarter. On a full year basis, we expect our international aesthetics sales to grow high single digits. We continue to invest to drive future growth for our aesthetics portfolio with a focus on enhanced promotional activities, improve digital products and services through our Alle platform, sales force expansion, and injector training. We continue to invest in our pipeline as well, and we remain committed to a regular cadence of new product introductions and indication expansions for Botox cosmetic and Juvederm. We recently announced the FDA approval of SkinVive, the first hyaluronic acid filler in the U.S. for improved skin smoothness of the cheeks, which, along with the recently launched Volux filler for jawline contouring, will help sustain our leadership position in the U.S. filler market. Our investments will allow us to maintain a strong leadership position in the highly underpenetrated and rapidly growing global aesthetics markets. We remain very confident in the long-term outlook for our aesthetics portfolio and continue to expect to deliver greater than $9 billion in 2029. In the near term, the improving aesthetics outlook in the U.S. and continued robust international performance gives us confidence to once again raise our full year aesthetics guidance with an expectation for continued operational growth over the back half of the year.

Hudson: Thank you, Carrie. We've continued to make very good progress with our pipeline over the quarter. We had a substantial amount of activity across our R&D pipeline, resulting in new approvals and advancements of several programs. In immunology, we received FDA approval for Rinvoq in Crohn's disease, marking its seventh FDA approval across gastroenterology, rheumatology and dermatology. In our Crohn's development program, Rinvoq demonstrated a very rapid and strong impact on symptoms as well as endoscopic improvement. Given its strong benefit risk profile, we believe Rinvoq will be an important new medicine for patients suffering from moderate to severe Crohn's disease. While Crohn's disease approval marks the completion of the core indications, we believe Rinvoq revokes the potential to become a highly effective therapy in several additional important diseases. We recently began Phase III studies for Rinvoq in systemic lupus, hidradenitis, suprativa, and we remain on track to begin Phase III studies in alopecia areata later this year. We'll also see later this year from a Phase II study in vitiligo, which could support advancement to Phase III in this indication as well. Moving to Skyrizi, where in the quarter, we announced positive top line results from our Phase III maintenance trial in ulcerative colitis. In this study, Skyrizi met the primary and key secondary end points at week 52 compared to the withdrawal arm, demonstrating that patients continuing treatment with Skyrizi maintain high levels of clinical remission as well as more stringent endpoints such as endoscopic improvement, histologic endoscopic mucosal improvement and steroid-free remission. It's important to note that approximately 75% of the patients in this study had failed advanced therapy, including not only anti-TNFs, but also other biologics, JAK inhibitors and S1P modulators. This represents a very difficult-to-treat population in ulcerative colitis. Skyrizi's strong performance in patients with and without failure to advanced therapies including patients who were naive to advanced therapy demonstrate its utility across the spectrum of moderate to severe UC patients. We remain on track to submit our regulatory applications in the third quarter with approvals anticipated in 2024. We also recently published results from a head-to-head trial comparing Skyrizi to Otezla in patients with moderate psoriasis with Skyrizi demonstrating clear superiority to Otezla on all primary and ranked secondary endpoints at week 16 and 52. At week 52 of this study, 64% of patients achieved absolute skin clearance as measured by PASI 100 an SPGA clear compared to just 3% for Otezla, underscoring Skyrizi's ability to drive very high and durable responses in these moderate patients. In addition to higher clinical efficacy outcomes, the patients treat with Skyrizi which is a self-injectable administered quarterly reported improvements in health-related quality of life measures and greater treatment satisfaction compared to those treated with Otezla, which is an oral administered twice daily. Additionally, Skyrizi demonstrated favorable safety and tolerability compared to Otezla. The rates of adverse events, including serious and severe AEs were numerically higher with Otezla than with Skyrizi treatment. Previous to -- similar to previous studies, Otezla treatment was associated with high rates of gastrointestinal distress such as nausea, diarrhea and vomiting, which resulted in a 7% discontinuation rate in the first 16 weeks of treatment compared to no discontinuations for Skyrizi patients. We're incredibly pleased with these results, which further underscores Skyrizi's position as the best in category treatment for moderate-to-severe psoriasis, providing very high efficacy, durable responses a safe and tolerable profile and convenient quarterly administration. In oncology, we received accelerated approval in the U.S. for Epkinly as a monotherapy treatment for patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL who had received two or more systemic therapies. We also recently received positive CHMP opinion with an approval decision in Europe expected later this year. DLBCL is a very aggressive disease where later-line patients have limited options. We're extremely excited to bring this new subcutaneous treatment option to patients. In the quarter, we also announced positive top line results from the follicular lymphoma cohort of a Phase II trial evaluating Epkinly in patients who have received at least two prior lines of therapy. In this study, Epkinly performed very well as a monotherapy, demonstrating an overall response rate of 82%. We are pleased with these results and plan to discuss these data with regulatory agencies about the potential to support a submission for accelerated approval. Beyond the mid-stage studies supporting accelerated approvals in later lines of therapy. We also have Phase III trials ongoing in earlier lines of DLBCL and for follicular lymphoma, and we look forward to providing updates on these programs as the data mature. In our navitoclax program, we recently saw top line results from the Phase III TRANSFORM one trial, evaluating navitoclax in combination with ruxolitinib in for patients with treatment naive myelofibrosis. This study met the primary endpoint at week 24, demonstrating a statistically significant improvement in the percentage of patients who achieved complete volume reduction of at least 35% compared to rux plus placebo. For the primary endpoint, the navitoclax combination showed a doubling of improvement over rux alone with 63% of patients on the navitoclax combination achieving SVR35 compared to 32% in the rux plus placebo combination. In this study, the navitoclax combination did not achieve the first ranked secondary endpoint, which was improvement in total symptom score at week 24. Additional follow-up data on SVR and TSS as well as other endpoints are expected in the fourth quarter of this year. We plan to wait for these more mature data before engaging with regulatory agencies in order to have a more comprehensive picture of the patient's clinical response and clinical benefit that navitoclax can provide. Looking to the remainder of this year. We remain on track for several additional data readouts from our late-stage oncology programs, including Phase III data from Venclexta's CANOVA trial in relapsed/refractory multiple myeloma patients with t(114) mutation. As a reminder, this is an event-driven study, and we're just waiting -- we're waiting for just a handful of remaining events. So, we'd expect to have these data in-house in the coming months. And we remain on track to see Phase II data for Teliso-V in second-line plus advanced non-squamous, non-small cell lung cancer in the fourth quarter. We're also making very good progress with several earlier line, earlier stage solid tumor programs. We recently initiated a Phase II study for ABBV-151, our anti-GARP antibody in hepatocellular carcinoma and plan to begin Phase II in several additional solid tumors over the course of the next 12 months. At the recent ASCO meeting, we presented promising initial results from a Phase I study evaluating our next-generation c-Met ADC, ABBV-400 in several advanced solid tumor types. We're seeing responses across multiple tumors, indicating broad activity. Results in late-line colorectal patients were particularly encouraging, where monotherapy treatment with 400 resulted in a confirmed overall response rate of 22% well in excess of standard of care, which is typically less than 2% to 3%. We're also encouraged by the durability of response seen in these early results. These patients had an average of five prior lines of therapy, so this level of efficacy is very encouraging. Based on these results, we plan to start our Phase II program later this year, beginning with a second line colorectal cancer study. Now moving to neuroscience, where in the quarter, we received a positive CHMP opinion recommending approval of atogepant for migraine prevention. We anticipate a decision in the coming months. And if approved, atogepant would be the only oral CGRP antagonist approved in Europe for prevention of both episodic and chronic migraine. This is a debilitating condition that impacts tens of millions of people in Europe, and we look forward to making this new oral treatment option available to patients once approved. Also, in the area of neuroscience, ABBV-916, our A-beta antibody for Alzheimer's disease is rapidly advancing to dose escalation studies. This antibody is demonstrating a long half-life and very low antidrug antibodies, both important attributes to achieve a best-in-class profile for our A-beta antibody. Dose selection in Phase II is expected to begin early next year. And lastly, in our aesthetics pipeline, we recently submitted our regulatory application for Botox in masseter muscle prominence in China, which is the initial focus for our program given the prevalence of masseter muscle prominence in Asian populations and a significant unmet need for minimally invasive treatment options. In our platisima prominence program for Botox, we remain on track to see data from two additional Phase III studies later this year with our regulatory submission in the U.S. expected near the end of the year. So, in summary, we had a very productive first half of the year across all stages and therapeutic areas of our pipeline, and we look forward to the second half of 2023 with several important clinical and regulatory milestones.

Gould: Thank you for taking my questions, and congrats on the quarter. I guess, two, acknowledging all your comments on the pipeline and previous comments on BD. Rick, was looking to get your thoughts on how the more assertive FTC here is limiting your target list on BD or your ability to complete deals? And then maybe just on Botox. Just was hoping for a little bit more color on the sustainability of the ex-U.S. trends versus maybe some of that demand getting pushed into the quarter after some of the shutdowns,

Gonzalez: Okay. So, I'll take the first question. Obviously, the FTC appears to be applying a lot more scrutiny to transactions. Having said that, I would say even before this happened, we would always evaluate an acquisition of a product or a company in the backdrop of what we thought the competitive environment would be our position in that market, meaning we didn't necessarily go out and try to do transactions that we thought would be extremely difficult from an FTC standpoint. So, I think the way we think about the FTC situation now is, look, it may require more time to get acquisitions through it may even require that you're willing to pursue litigation in order to get those through. But in the end, if your position is that what you're trying to do is not anticompetitive. You will be able to ultimately prevail in that process. And I think we're seeing that as some of these transactions go to court. Some not in our own industry, but in other industries, I think that's playing out. And so, I think ultimately, it will end up being more of a delay, but not something that staples your ability to do things that are appropriate to do. That's my perspective on it. Carrie?

Strom: Sure. In terms of the aesthetics market internationally, like we said, we've been very pleased with the performance so far, and we expect to -- we continue to expect to see that type of strong performance through the rest of the year. We're continuing to invest in key growth markets like Japan and in markets like Brazil. And of course, China has become our second biggest market globally. And in China, in the first quarter, we did see significant growth as the market was reopening from COVID and some pent-up demand that came through in Q1 and early Q2. And now China has returned to normalized high growth rates. And so despite some economic pressures there, we really continue to see strong growth as we continue to invest and expand our promotional footprint there through field force, through injector training and our consumer efforts. And China will continue to be a really attractive market for us. Based on that commercial expansion and also, we're going to have a steady flow of new product launches throughout the decade in that market. One thing to note, which we did mention in our prepared remarks is that we do expect Q3 to be relatively flat internationally based on shipment timing from last year with that return to growth in

Michael: And then, Carter, you were specifically asking about international Botox. I think if you just look at the run rate through the six months of the year, that's probably a good proxy for where we expect international Botox to land. We're holding strong share positions. Force is very, very good. So there's really no dynamic there. As Carrie mentioned, I mean you have to keep in mind that fillers a very large market for us, business for us internationally. We do have the Q3 dynamic. But when you look at the full year for international, that high single-digit growth, is certainly a way to think about the international business for aesthetics.

Stewart: Thank you, Rob. We once again delivered strong results across our therapeutic portfolio this quarter. I'll start with immunology, which delivered total revenues of nearly $6.8 billion exceeding our expectations. Skyrizi and Rinvoq continue to demonstrate impressive growth and are now on pace to deliver approximately $11.6 billion in combined sales this year. This performance is especially encouraging, recognizing that we are still in the early launch phase for both assets and IBD, an area of high unmet need where we are very competitively positioned with two complementary assets, each having generated strong response rates and durable remission across our development programs. Skyrizi total sales were $2.1 billion, reflecting operational growth of more than 50%. This robust performance includes further share gains in psoriasis, where we remain the clear market leader, capturing roughly one-third of the total prescriptions in the U.S. biologic market, and approximately 50% of in-play patients who are either new to therapy or switching. Increasing momentum in psoriatic arthritis, where Skyrizi is now the leading in-play biologic therapy in the U.S. dermatology segment, as well as continued rapid uptake in Crohn's disease where we are capturing roughly one out of every four in-play patients. Importantly, we recently announced positive results from SEQUENCE the ninth and perhaps the most impactful head-to-head study across our development program for Skyrizi and Rinvoq. SEQUENCE is a Phase 3 head-to-head study in Crohn's, which demonstrated Skyrizi's superiority versus Stelara across key efficacy parameters, including impressive, statistically significant differences in both clinical and endoscopic remission. The detailed data from this trial were presented earlier this month, and we plan to share the findings more broadly now via our medical personnel and representatives in the field. We anticipate these strong head-to-head results will clearly support Skyrizi as the best in category therapy for Crohn's, which is important for continued rapid share capture. So based on this very positive data as well as our continued momentum, we will be once again raising the full year sales outlook for Skyrizi. Moving now to Rinvoq, which delivered global sales of $1.1 billion, reflecting operational growth of nearly 60% with increasing prescriptions across each of the approved indications. In particular, I am very excited about Rinvoq's growth potential in gastroenterology, where uptake is exceeding our expectations. In ulcerative colitis, Rinvoq is now capturing more than 25% total in-play patient share in the U.S. second-line plus setting, nearly at parity to the current market-leading therapy. And in Crohn's disease, Rinvoq is ramping very significantly. The inflection we are seeing is even faster when compared to our time aligned launch in UC just last year. Given this impressive momentum in IBD, we will now be raising our full year sales outlook for Rinvoq. Global Humira sales were more than $3.5 billion, down 36.2% due to biosimilar competition. The erosion impact in the U.S. played out largely in line with our expectations this quarter, while performance across our international markets is trending better-than-expected. Turning now to oncology, where total revenues were $1.5 billion. Imbruvica global revenues were $908 million down 20% and consistent with our expectations. Venclexta global sales were $590 million, up 14% on an operational basis with strong demand for CLL and AML across our key countries. The U.S. launch of at EPKINLY in third line plus DLBCL is also tracking well with commercialization also now underway in Europe and Japan, following the recent respective approvals. In neuroscience, total revenues were more than $2 billion, up 22% on an operational basis. Vraylar continues to demonstrate robust growth. Global sales of $751 million were up 35.4% and we have seen a significant uplift in new prescriptions across all indications, following the approval as an adjunctive treatment for major depressive disorder late last year. Our leading oral CGRP portfolio for migraine contributed $365 million in combined sales this quarter, reflecting growth of nearly 65%, as we continue to see strong demand for both Ubrelvy and Qulipta. Atogepant was also recently approved as a new therapy in Europe branded as Aquipta, where it is the only once-daily oral CGRP for prevention of both episodic and chronic migraine, further strengthening our competitive product profile and long-term growth opportunity. Lastly, total Botox Therapeutic global sales were $748 million, up 7.4% on an operational basis, reflecting momentum in chronic migraine as well as other approved indications. So overall, I am extremely pleased with commercial execution across the therapeutic portfolio, especially with our growth platform, which is demonstrating strong revenue growth. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Carrie for additional comments on aesthetics. Carrie?

Strom: Thank you, Jeff. Third quarter global aesthetics sales were approximately $1.2 billion, an operational decline of 4%. In the U.S., aesthetic sales of $759 million were roughly flat to last year as growth for Botox Cosmetic was offset by declines in other brands that continue to be impacted by lower consumer spending related to inflationary pressures. U.S. Botox Cosmetic sales were $388 million, an increase of 5%. We are beginning to see a recovery in the U.S. toxin market, which posted positive year-over-year growth in the third quarter following three consecutive quarters of declines due to economic pressures. Botox continues to perform very well despite increasing competition. It remains the clear market leader with a strong and stable share, and we have seen little to no share impact from new competitive entrants. U.S. Juvederm sales were $116 million in the third quarter, a decline of 6.4% versus prior year as recovery in the facial filler market continues to lag the cosmetic toxin market. The filler market is improving, however, as a higher priced, more deferrable procedure relative to toxins. The segment of the aesthetics market continues to be suppressed by lower consumer spending. In the third quarter, the U.S. facial filler market was down low teens percentage compared to the prior year. Juvederm remains the market-leading facial seller in the U.S. and share was stable in the quarter. While the U.S. facial injectable markets continue to be impacted by lower consumer spending in this inflationary environment, we are seeing signs of stabilization and even a return to growth in the cosmetic toxin segment. This gives us confidence in a stable to improving outlook in the U.S. as we end this year and enter 2024. Internationally, third quarter aesthetic sales were $480 million, representing an operational decline of 9.7%. As anticipated, year-over-year performance in the quarter was impacted by a shipment timing benefit we experienced in the third quarter of last year. Results were also impacted by softening economic conditions across major international aesthetic markets, primarily China. Despite the economic pressures that are currently impacting our aesthetics portfolio, we remain very confident in its long-term growth outlook. In September, we began launching Skin Vive in the U.S. And in the next few years, we plan to launch new indications for Botox in the lower face segment, and our novel fast-onset, short-duration toxin BoNT/E. In addition to our R&D programs, we have a robust Alle technology pipeline, which will bring new tech products into the U.S. market to help our customers acquire, retain and cross-sell more aesthetic patients. Our strong leadership positions in both cosmetic toxins and facial fillers combined with the significant investments we're making to drive market acceleration will position us for strong growth going forward.

Hudson: Thank you, Carrie. In immunology, we had two important milestones in the third quarter for Skyrizi in inflammatory bowel disease. Following completion of the Phase 3 maintenance trial in ulcerative colitis. We submitted our regulatory applications for Scares in this indication in the U.S. and Europe with approvals anticipated in 2024. We also recently presented results from the SEQUENCE head-to-head trial comparing Skyrizi to Stelara in patients with moderate to severe Crohn's disease. We're extremely pleased with how Skyrizi performed in this study, which enrolled very difficult-to-treat patients who all failed anti-TNF therapy. Skyrizi met the primary and all secondary endpoints in the trial, demonstrating clear superiority to Stelara on all endpoints at week 48 and with a more than doubling of effect in endoscopic remission at 32% of Skyrizi versus 16% for Stelara and endoscopic response at 45% versus 22% for Stelara. Furthermore, steroid-free clinical remission was 61% for Scares versus 40% for Stelara. So these compelling head-to-head Crohn's data combined with the additional indication approval for ulcerative colitis expected next year will further position Skyrizi as a highly effective, durable, safe and well-tolerated treatment option for patients with moderate to severe inflammatory bowel disease. We continue to make very good progress with the second wave of Rinvoq development programs as well in addition to the ongoing Phase 3 programs in GCA, lupus and HS, we recently began the Phase 3 program for Rinvoq in Alopecia Areata. We also recently announced positive top line results from a Phase 2 study for Rinvoq in vitiligo. In this study, Rinvoq met the primary and all secondary endpoints at week 24 and demonstrating a significant improvement in both facial and total body vitiligo scoring measures compared to placebo. Importantly, these results continued to improve through week 52 of the study illustrating Rinvoq's potential to provide significant skin repigmentation to patients suffering from vitiligo. Based on these results, we're advancing Rinvoq to Phase 3 in this indication with studies expected to begin soon. Moving to oncology, where in the quarter, we received approval in Europe and Japan for epcoritamab as a monotherapy treatment for patients with relapsed or refractory DLBCL, were received two or more systemic therapies. These approvals represent important regulatory milestones for EPCO, and we look forward to bringing this new subcutaneous treatment option to patients in these international markets. We also continue to make good progress with the development programs in earlier lines of DLBCL and follicular lymphoma and we look forward to providing updates on these programs as the data mature. In our Venclexta multiple myeloma program, we recently announced top line results of a Phase 3 CANOVA trial evaluating Venclexta plus dexamethasone compared to PomDex in relapsed/refractory patients with a T114 mutation. In this study, the primary endpoint of IR CSS PFS was longer with VenDex versus PomDex but did not meet statistical significance. accommodation also resulted in numerically higher response rates and longer overall survival compared to PomDex. While the differences in efficacy measures were not statistically significant, we believe the totality of the data show a benefit with the Venclexta combination and we plan to discuss the results with regulatory agencies. We'll provide updates on the program as they become available. Behind Venclexta, we have several exciting multiple myeloma programs emerging from our earlier stage pipeline. We continue to make good progress with our BCMA CD3 bispecific ABBV-383 and where we're nearing completion of the dose optimization work and are on track to begin Phase 3 studies in the first half of next year. At an upcoming medical meeting, we plan to present updated Phase 1 efficacy and safety results as well as monthly administration dose data. We're also making good progress with our next-generation BCL2 inhibitor, ABBV-53, which is currently in Phase 1 studies and we'll provide updates as the data become available. Now moving to Neuroscience, where in the quarter, we received approval for Aquipta in Europe, which is now the only oral CGRP antagonist approved in Europe for prevention of both episodic and chronic migraine. And lastly, in our aesthetics pipeline, we recently announced top line results from a second Phase 3 study evaluating Botox in platysma prominence, similar to results from the first Phase 3 study, all primary and secondary endpoints were met with Botox demonstrating a significant reduction in platysma prominence and vertical neckband. We anticipate a regulatory submission in the U.S. here the end of the year. In addition to indication expansion for Botox, we continue to advance our novel toxin pipeline. We recently announced positive top line results from two Phase 3 trials evaluating BoNT/E, our rapid onset, short-acting novel toxin in glabellar lines. BoNT/E performed very well in both studies meeting the primary and all secondary endpoints compared to placebo. BoNT/E was well tolerated and no safety concerns were identified. We're very pleased with these results, which demonstrate this toxin's rapid onset of action and short duration of effect. Patients treated with BoNT/E showed an improvement in glabellar lines as early as 8 hours following injection and a duration of effect of 2 to 3 weeks. This highly differentiated clinical profile could offer patients a novel option compared to currently available neurotoxins. We plan to complete the remaining development work over the course of the next few quarters and anticipate submitting our regulatory applications in the second half of next year. So in summary, we continue to make good progress across all stages and therapeutic areas of our pipeline, and we look forward to several more important milestones in the remainder of this year, including Phase 2 data for Teliso-V and second line plus advanced non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer, which has the potential to support an accelerated approval. Phase 2 proof-of-concept data for our anti-IL-1 alpha beta bispecific antibody, lutikizumab in hidradenitis suprativa, and regulatory approval in Europe for ABBV-951, our novel subcutaneous levodopa, carbidopa delivery system for advanced Parkinson's disease. We also plan to submit updated 951 data in the U.S. near the end of the year.

Nettleton: This is Alice Nettleton on for Tim Anderson. A question on obesity and its interface with I&I and a lot of other drug categories, frankly, are views that payers have to cover OBD medicines. And if that's correct, it's a big expense, and payers will be looking for offsets. One-off that would be for payers to squeeze other therapeutic areas as hard as they can. An example could be I&I, where there's now a really good product, your own HUMIRA at a much lower price. So we're wondering how much payers might start to force a step edit for products like Skyrizi? It's a relevant question because yesterday, one of the issues Bristol noted with its TYK2 product is step edits and they cite biosimilar

Stewart: Thank you for the question. It's Jeff. And I think you've got to take a step back regardless of the obesity issues and think about the overall strategy that we pursued, which was 1 of fundamental distinction. And I'll take your point over some of these head-to-head trials, and there's 9 of them, right? So if you take Skyrizi, just in psoriasis, we have gross superiority versus every mechanism in the category. So a head-to-head of gross superiority versus Humira versus the leading IL-17 COSENTYX versus the oral Otezla, and we also have versus Stelara. So fundamentally, when payers think about stepping or not stepping or how they would think about that, there's a medical dynamic there and that distinctiveness that we have across our program is very, very important to help manage maybe the urge of the payers to think of formulary structures like that. If you think about your comments that you have -- that you heard yesterday or the day before, that's a very different dynamic. I mean, if you're not that different or you have the same efficacy as a Humira, it's not going to go that well on some of these formularies. And so I think you got to take a step back and look at the fundamental distinctiveness that we have on both Skyrizi and Rinvoq. And I think my last comment would be, let's take Reno, which is growing very fast, 60%, okay? All of that is in the second-line plus setting. So from a strategic standpoint, it's already stepped. And so when you take a look at those dynamics, we remain quite confident that as we rely on the power of raising the standard of care, that will help us navigate any of these scenarios, whether it's related to obesity or not.

Divan: I mean, transit right now. But the two questions I have actually, one is maybe building on Terence's question around business development base in the pipeline. I think we get a lot of other questions just around sort of the underappreciated assets within your pipeline. I don't know if you can maybe just comment on that. I know there's a couple of assets that you plan out things people are overlooking where they might be some underappreciated upside? And then the second one is just on the charge you took today or this quarter on Imbruvica regarding the Medicare drug pricing program. And obviously, I understand why you did. I'm curious on the amount and the timing of why you're doing now, I suppose I may be willing to see how the losses play out or negotiation process plays out. And then in terms of the amount or how you -- what your assumptions were that you can share on the competitive dynamics for sort of what you're assuming around the impact this program would have on the pricing of Imbruvica…?

Thakkar: It's Roopal. Let me add on a little bit. I think you may be also reflecting on some of the ESMO data that came out I will mention long a little bit, we still see an opportunity with Teliso-V. We're going to get data later this year. But what we've already observed is 50% ORRs in a biomarker-selected population in the EGFR wild type. If you look at some of the data that has come out, the ORRs are probably right around 20% to 30%. We don't have all the breakdown of all the different lung subtypes. But 1 approach is to use a biomarker and then select the patient population rather than going so broadly that was observed at ESMO. The other thing I would say reflecting on the data that came out, if you looked at EGFR mutants in lung, you see some higher levels of efficacy, either in the frontline or second line in that space. But that comes at a cost, and that's a chemo-like adverse event profile. And those are things like nausea, vomiting, stomatitis, alopecia, fatigue. These are things that you may see slight increases in efficacy, but clearly, patients don't want that. And like -- as Tom was mentioning with our platform and including Teliso-V, we have an opportunity there in the mutant side to combine with osimertinib, which has a nice profile. And those mutant patients when they progress, half of them have highly expressed c-Met. So that's where a combo looks good. And then we're also seeing 50% ORR in that segment as well. And we have a plan to get into Phase 3 into that next year. And then as we think about heme, we spoke about 383, which we feel has best-in-class potential. And one of the things that we're observing with that one is the high level of efficacy. , we're driving down past grade 3 and now driving down to get past grade 2. So that enables the potential where you may not need hospitalization. And what you see now with the BCMA dual engagers is not just hospitalization but a REMS. And what we would add to that is dose spacing potentially every other month. So that one is a very nice profile, and we're moving into Phase 3 with that one, and we continue to conduct a variety of combinations there so we can move into earlier lines of therapy in multiple myeloma. We are still moving into earlier lines in Phase 3s with EPKINLY in heme, which is another dual engager. We have an asset called 453, which is our next-gen BCL2 blocker. And then we have a BTK degrader called 101 that's also in clinic.

Meacham: Just have a couple of quick ones, one on immunology. So you guys have evaluated the impact from Humira biosimilars beyond even 25%, is it your view that tail revenues are likely to be better than you initially modeled. And what, if anything, do Stelara, the delay in Stelara biosimilars impact this. And the second question, just on capital deployment. Just given your higher guidance, I know you guys just raised the dividend, but would you also say that the deal capacity is higher. I know you recently raised kind of

Stewart: Yes. Geoff, it's Jeff here. And we continue to study the tail. I mean it's something that we're -- we look very closely at -- we continue to think that the Humira tail will emerge sometime in '25 or '26. And that's looking at some of the international analogs, how we think we see pricing may move I mean the one thing that we do believe is that you're not going to have a small molecule like tail, which is virtually nothing. There's going to be a sub-segment of patients that are going to stay on Humira. It's going to be modest, whether it's low price or low volume, but it will be there even in an interchangeable world. We don't necessarily believe that since we've outperformed here in volume in '23 that that's going to fundamentally change our view on the tail at this point. And again, we're still highlighting that. In terms of Stelara, obviously, we think in the U.S. that will not come until -- and I think it was recently confirmed this week until sometime in '25. And so overall, we think that's a modest net positive for AbbVie in terms of how that may play out. But that's not the primary driver of our strategy. Our primary driver of the strategy is how distinctive we are across our indications with Skyrizi versus

Thakkar: Thank you, Carrie. In 2023, we saw significant evolution of our pipeline with multiple data readouts, regulatory submissions and approvals, as well as expansion of our R&D efforts with the announced ImmunoGen and Cerevel transactions. We expect to continue this progress with numerous important clinical and regulatory milestones anticipated this year. In immunology, we recently announced positive topline results for lutikizumab our anti-IL-1 alpha beta bispecific being evaluated in hidradenitis suppurativa. In the Phase 2 study, lutikizumab demonstrated higher, high score of 50 and high score of 75 measures, as well as improvement in skin pain compared to placebo. These are very impressive results considering all patients who were inadequate responders to anti-TNF therapy. And 70% of the patients were early stage three, which is the most advanced stage of the disease. Based on these results, we plan to begin a Phase 3 program in HF later this year. We also plan to evaluate lutikizumab in ulcerative colitis and Crohn's, given the role that IL-1 likely plays in these diseases. Patients with UC who have an IL-1 beta signature have shown resistance to anti-TNF and other biologics, providing strong rationale for a potential biomarker approach. Additionally, we believe lutikizumab has the potential to be used in combinations to provide transformational levels of efficacy in IBD. We plan to evaluate combo approaches with lutikizumab and Skyrizi, as well as with other pipeline assets in Crohn's. Our Phase 2 studies in IBD are expected to begin later this year. Our regulatory applications are under review for Skyrizi in ulcerative colitis. With approval decisions expected in the US and Europe later this year. Once Skyrizi is approved in UC, along with Rinvoq, we will have two assets with different mechanisms of action in IBD, both offering very high levels of efficacy. AbbVie will be very well-positioned with an industry-leading suite of treatment options for patients suffering from moderate to severe ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease. We continued to make very good progress with the second wave of development programs for Rinvoq. With Phase 3 studies underway in five new indications, giant cell arteritis, lupus, HF, alopecia areata and vitiligo. We anticipate data readouts for these programs over the next three years, beginning with data from our GCA study this year. Moving to oncology, where we continue to make very good progress across our heme and solid tumor programs. In the area of hematologic oncology, we'll see data in the second half of this year from the Venclexta Phase 3 VERONA trial in treatment-naive higher-risk MDS patients, with regulatory submissions and approvals, anticipated in 2025. For Epkinly, we anticipate regulatory approvals in third-line or greater follicular lymphoma later this year in both the US and Europe. We also expect to begin several new Phase 3 studies in 2024, including studies in second-line DLBCL and frontline follicular lymphoma. At the recent ASH Meeting, we presented new data for our BCMA CD3 bispecific ABBV-383 in multiple myeloma. 383 is engineered for high-affinity binding to BCMA on malignant cells, and low affinity binding to a unique CD3 epitope on T-Cells, which has the potential to mitigate some of the adverse events associated with other T-Cell engaging BCMA-based therapies, while preserving high levels of efficacy. We're very encouraged by the data emerging from our Phase 1b study, which show treatment with 383 is yielding deep and durable responses. With a lower incidence and severity of CRS. With this profile, we believe 383 can be a highly effective and tolerable treatment for multiple myeloma. While potentially allowing for outpatient administration, limited or no step-up dosing and monthly administration from the beginning of treatment. All attributes, which would make it very appealing to both patients and physicians. We remain on track to begin a Phase 3 monotherapy study in third-line multiple myeloma this year. And we plan to begin combination trials in earlier lines of therapy in 2025. In the area of solid tumors, we recently announced positive topline results from the Teliso-V Phase 2 LUMINOSITY study in previously treated non-small cell lung cancer. Teliso-V demonstrated strong clinical benefits across key endpoints, including, overall response rate, duration of response and overall survival, with a tolerable safety profile. We believe these results have the potential to support accelerated approval. And we plan to discuss the data with regulators in the coming months. Pending alignment with the FDA, our submission is planned for the second half of this year. We're also making good progress with our next-generation c-Met ADC ABBV-400, which utilizes the same c-Met blocking antibody as Teliso-V, but has a proprietary Topo-1 warhead to afford deeper and more durable responses with an improved therapeutic index. We remain on track to see data this year from the non-small cell lung cancer and gastroesophageal cohorts from our Phase 1 study. And based on the progress we're making in our colorectal program, we plan to begin a Phase 3 study later this year in third-line CRC. We also continue to make very good progress with our anti-GARP antibody ABBV-151. Our Phase 2 study in second-line hepatocellular carcinoma is underway, and we plan to begin several additional Phase 2 studies this year, including frontline HCC, frontline lung cancer and metastatic urothelial cancer. We look forward to providing updates on these programs as the data mature. Now moving to Neuroscience where we recently announced the European launch of ABBV-951 for patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. We also recently provided our complete response submission to the FDA for 951 with an approval decision anticipated in the second quarter. Our novel subcutaneous levodopa, carbidopa delivery system has the potential to offer meaningful benefits over current treatment options and others that are in development. 951 delivers significant improvements in off-time and on-time with a less invasive non-surgical system. It can deliver high levodopa doses similar to the amount provided by DUOPA. And it doesn't require combination with oral drugs to achieve high efficacy. 951 also provides a full 24-hour benefit, which should result in less morning akinesia. We're extremely excited to bring this transformative therapeutic option to patients in Europe and the US once approved. In our Aesthetics pipeline, we recently submitted our regulatory application in the US for Botox in platysma prominence. We anticipate an approval decision in the second half of this year. And we remain on track to complete the remaining CMC work this year for BoNT/E, our rapid onset short-acting novel toxin. Following completion of the remaining work, we plan to submit our regulatory application in the second half of the year, with approval anticipated near the end of 2025. So in summary, we continue to demonstrate significant progress across all stages of our pipeline and anticipate numerous regulatory and clinical milestones again in 2024. I also look forward to integrating the ImmunoGen and Cerevel teams and pipeline assets into our R&D organization once those transactions close this year. These two transactions significantly strengthened our oncology and neuroscience pipelines with the addition of several novel assets that have the potential to become innovative new therapies for many patients.

Reents: Thank you, Roopal. I'm very pleased with AbbVie's strong performance in 2023. We have substantial momentum across the portfolio to support our long-term growth outlook. Starting with our fourth quarter results, we reported adjusted earnings per share of $2.79, which is $0.05 above our guidance midpoint. These results include a $0.15 unfavorable impact from acquired IPR&D expense. Total net revenues were $14.3 billion, $300 million ahead of our guidance, and down 5.4%. Most notably, these results reflect 15.3% sales growth from our ex-Humira growth platform. The adjusted operating margin ratio was 43.8% of sales. This includes adjusted gross margin of 83.9% of sales, adjusted R&D expense of 13.4% of sales, acquired IPR&D expense of 2% of sales, and adjusted SG&A expense of 24.7% of sales. Adjusted net interest expense was $363 million, the adjusted tax-rate was 17.2%. Turning to our financial outlook for 2024, our full year adjusted earnings per share guidance is between $11.05 and $11.25. This earnings per share guidance includes dilution related to the ImmunoGen and Cerevel acquisitions of $0.32, which assumes closing in the middle of the year. Please note this guidance does not include an estimate for required IPR&D expense that may be incurred throughout the year. We expect total net revenues of approximately $54.2 billion, reflecting a return to modest operational growth. At current rates, we expect foreign-exchange to have a 0.5% unfavorable impact on full year sales growth. This revenue forecast contemplates the following approximate assumptions for our key products in therapeutic areas. We expect global immunology sales of $25.6 billion, including Humira sales of $9.6 billion, including US erosion of roughly 36%. Skyrizi revenue of $10.5 billion, reflecting growth of more than $2.7 billion due to strong market-share performance in psoriasis, as well as robust uptake in IBD. And Rinvoq sales of $5.5 billion, reflecting growth of nearly 40% with continued market growth and share momentum across all approved indications. On a full-year basis, we anticipate that our strong volume growth for Skyrizi and Rinvoq will be modestly offset by low-single digit negative net price. In oncology, we expect sales of $5.7 billion, including Imbruvica revenue of $2.9 billion and Venclexta sales of $2.4 billion. As well as contributions from Epkinly, and partial year sales from Elahere. For Aesthetics, we expect sales of $5.7 billion. Including $2.9 billion from Botox Cosmetic and mid-single-digit revenue growth from Juvederm. For Neuroscience, we expect revenue of $8.9 billion, representing growth of more than 15%, including Vraylar sales of $3.4 billion, Botox Therapeutic sales of $3.2 billion and total oral CGRP revenue of $1.6 billion. For eye care, we expect sales of $2.2 billion. Moving to the P&L for 2024, we are forecasting full-year adjusted gross margin of 84% of sales. Adjusted R&D investment of 14% of sales, adjusted SG&A expense of 23.5% of sales, and adjusted operating margin ratio of roughly 46.5% of sales. We expect adjusted net interest expense of $2.1 billion, which includes the partial year cost in 2024 to finance the ImmunoGen and Cerevel transactions. We forecast our non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 15.7%. Finally, we expect share count to be roughly flat to 2023. Turning to the first quarter, we anticipate net revenues of approximately $11.9 billion. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a 0.5% unfavorable impact on sales growth. This revenue forecast comprehends the following approximate assumptions for our key therapeutic areas. Immunology sales of $5.1 billion, including Skyrizi sales of $1.9 billion, and Rinvoq revenue of $1 billion. These estimates reflect typical first quarter seasonality as well as low single digit unfavorable net price. We expect Humira global revenue of $2.2 billion, including US sales of $1.7 billion. We also anticipate oncology revenue just above $1.3 billion, Aesthetic sales of $1.3 billion, Neuroscience revenue of $1.9 billion, and eye care sales of $600 million. We are forecasting an adjusted gross margin of approximately 83.5% of sales and an adjusted operating margin ratio of roughly 44.5% of sales. We also model a non-GAAP tax rate of 14.8%. We expect adjusted earnings per share between $2.30 and $2.34. This guidance does not include acquired IPR&D expense that may be incurred in the quarter. Finally, AbbVie's strong business performance and outlook continues to support our capital allocation priorities. Our cash balance at the end of December was $12.8 billion. And we expect to generate free cash flow of approximately $18 billion in 2024, which includes roughly $1.9 billion in Skyrizi royalty payments. The strong free cash flow will fully support a strong growing dividend, which we have increased by more than 285% since inception, continued debt repayment, where we expect to pay down the approximately $7 billion of maturities this year, and also provides capacity for continued business development to further augment our portfolio. In closing, AbbVie has once again delivered outstanding results and our financial outlook remains very strong.

Shea: Thanks, Scott. We will now open the call for questions. In the interest of hearing from as many analysts as possible over the remainder of the call, we ask that you please limit your questions to one or two.

Hudson: Hi, this is Tom Hudson. I'll answer the question, the first question, yes, we do have a partnered program with Alector on the TREM2 target. TREM2 was identified in Alzheimers disease through genetic studies, several years ago, very strong link. We have a program which -- TREM2 modulates and no inflammatory response in AD. All patients are enrolled in the Phase 2, we will have data later this year. So again it's an early clinical development, but we will expect to see key data later.

Reents: Sure, this is Scott. Regarding the GILTI tax. So this is the US tax, the foreign minimum tax on foreign earnings that the US supplies. That tax rate today is at 10.5%, it's going to move up to 13.1% a little bit more than that. That will occur -- the implementation date is a little bit mixed, because it depends on fiscal year-ends of legal entities, but let's call it 2026 is when we can look at that. And only part of our income is subject to that rate. So, I would say that's approximately a 1.5% impact to our tax rate that you would see. And that's baked into my 1% on average over the next three years.

Hector: Thank you for taking my question. I wanted to touch on the Part-D restructure an IRA. So you have a number of drugs that are likely to be impacted by this. And obviously, you talk about your strong rebound in 2025. So I'd just love to hear your thoughts on how that restructure will impact. And perhaps to what extent that is already baked into your expectations of the rebound? And maybe just to check, have you now received the initial offer from CMS owned Imbruvica?

Stewart: Thank you, Rob. I'll start with the quarterly results for immunology, which delivered total revenues of approximately $5.4 billion exceeding our expectations. Skyrizi global sales were $2 billion reflecting operational growth of 48%. We continue to see exceptional momentum across all of the approved indications. In psoriasis, Skyrizi is the clear market leader in the U.S. biologic psoriasis market with a total prescription share now above 35%. That's more than double the share of the next closest biologic therapy. Share is also ramping nicely in PsA, especially in the dermatology segment, where we are now capturing one out of every four new or switching in play biologic patients. Globally, Skyrizi has achieved psoriatic in play share leadership in nearly 30 key countries. In IBD, Skyrizi is on track to add more than $1 billion of incremental sales growth this year. We are seeing tremendous performance in Crohn's disease, where our compelling head-to-head data versus Stelara is driving a meaningful inflection of patient share. As a result, we have now achieved in play share leadership in Crohn's across all lines of therapy in both the U.S. and Japan as well as other key markets around the world. And finally, we are preparing for the launch of Skyrizi in ulcerative colitis, which represents another substantial long-term growth driver. We expect approval decisions in the middle of this year and anticipate rapid access in the U.S. following our launch. Given the robust frontline capture for Skyrizi in Crohn's and the exceptional bio-naive data we have generated in UC, we anticipate a strong launch. Turning now to Rinvoq with global sales of approximately $1.1 billion, reflecting operational growth of 61.9%. In rheum, we continue to see strong prescription growth across each of the four approved indications, and I'm especially pleased with our performance in rheumatoid arthritis, where Rinvoq has achieved in play share leadership in nearly 20 key international markets. Atopic dermatitis is tracking in line with our expectations with continued market share momentum globally. Importantly, we recently announced positive results from LEVEL UP, our second head-to-head study in AD. LEVEL UP demonstrated Rinvoq superiority for patients starting therapy on the 15 milligram dose versus Dupixent across key efficacy parameters, including the high levels of skin clearance and itch reduction. We anticipate these strong head-to-head results will support additional share capture, especially given Rinvoq label use in the U.S., which requires that initiation with a 15 milligram dose. And in IBD, Rinvoq's uptake continues to be very strong. Rinvoq is capturing high teens in play patient share in ulcerative colitis as well as mid-teens in play patient share in Crohn's disease. This performance is especially encouraging recognizing that we're still relatively early in the launch phase for both the UC and CD indications, and the lines of therapy are also expanding, with second line plus growing even faster as patients cycle to newer, higher efficacy agents like Rinvoq and IBD. Turning now to Humira, which delivered global sales of approximately $2.3 billion, down 35.2% on an operational basis due to biosimilar competition. Erosion in the U.S. played out slightly better than our expectations in the quarter with the vast majority of the impact this quarter driven by price. As previously communicated, the recent changes to the CVS template formularies were anticipated in our full year outlook for U.S. Humira and the volume impact is tracking in line with our expectations. Our guidance has also contemplated the impact of additional formulary changes that are expected to go into effect over the course of the year. We continue to anticipate that Humira will maintain parity access to biosimilars for a significant majority of patient lives this year. Moving now to oncology, where total revenues were more than $1.5 billion exceeding our expectations. Imbruvica global revenues were $838 million, down 4.5%, reflecting continued competitive pressure in CLL. Venclexta global sales were $614 million, up 16.3% on an operational basis and we are seeing robust momentum internationally with strong performance for both CLL and AML. Elahere generated $64 million of sales to AbbVie, reflecting a partial quarter of revenue following the February close of the ImmunoGen acquisition. The Elahere sales and marketing team is executing very well and I'm pleased with the smooth integration into our commercial organization. We anticipate that the recent positive updates in the NCCN guidelines for both platinum sensitive and platinum resistant ovarian cancer patients as well as the full label approval, which of course, includes the compelling overall survival data that has never been achieved before in these platinum resistant patients will continue to drive strong Elahere uptake. Lastly, the global launch of Epkinly in third line plus DLBCL is also performing well and we remain on track for the potential label expansion for follicular lymphoma later this year. Neuroscience total revenues were nearly $2 billion, up 16% on an operational basis, again, ahead of our expectations. This robust performance is driven by continued double-digit growth of Vraylar with global sales of $694 million, Ubrelvy with total revenue of $203 million and Qulipta with global sales of $131 million. Each of these leading assets continue to gain share and remain competitively well positioned. Botox Therapeutic is also performing well, especially in chronic migraine. Total global sales were $748 million, up 4.5% on an operational basis. And finally, we are very excited about 951, which will be commercialized as Vyalev in the U.S. and represents a potentially transformative next generation therapy for advanced Parkinson's disease. Feedback from the launches in Japan and Europe have been very encouraging and we remain on track for commercial approval in the U.S. later this year. So overall, I'm extremely pleased with the strong and balanced growth across our therapeutic portfolio this quarter, a testament to our differentiated product profiles and commercial execution. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Carrie for additional comments on aesthetics. Carrie?

Strom: Thank you, Jeff. First quarter global aesthetic sales were over $1.2 billion, reflecting a modest decline on an operational basis. In the U.S., aesthetic sales of $776 million were roughly flat versus the prior year. We continue to see sustained momentum in the facial injectable market recovery that emerged in the back half of last year. Consistent with the past few quarters, the toxin market grew by a mid-single-digit percentage. We saw similar year-over-year increases in the number of facial filler procedures, representing a return to quarterly market growth for the first time since early 2022. From a competitive perspective, our U.S. aesthetics portfolio continues to perform well. Market share for both Botox Cosmetic and Juvederm was stable in the first quarter as these assets remain the clear market leaders. While we're pleased that the market and share trends across U.S. facial injectables are aligned with our previous expectations, our first quarter results were impacted by customers holding lower than normal inventory levels at quarter end. This dynamic relates to a decision made during the quarter to shift the timing of certain promotional activities into the second quarter. We therefore expect inventory levels to normalize in the second quarter and remain on track to deliver full year aesthetics sales growth in the U.S. Internationally, first quarter aesthetic sales were $473 million reflecting an operational decline of 5.5%. Consistent with our expectations, growth in China was impacted by persistent economic headwinds as well as a challenging comparison versus the first quarter of last year, which benefited from a robust recovery post-COVID. We are monitoring the economic developments across China and continue to anticipate a recovery in the second half of this year. Our pipeline continues to generate important new assets. Uptake of our recently launched Volux and SkinVive products remain strong, underscoring the importance of innovation within aesthetics. Given this context, we are excited for the upcoming launch of Juvederm Voluma XC for the treatment of temple hollows. As the only dermal filler approved for use in the upper face, we anticipate the Voluma XC introduction will activate more consumers and support the long-term growth of our filler portfolio. And within our toxin pipeline, we continue to expect FDA approval of the platysma prominence indication for Botox near the end of this year, enhancing Botox growth potential as a noninvasive treatment to reduce the appearance of vertical neck bands and improve jawline definition. We also remain on track to submit a new drug application for our short acting toxin, BoNT/E, before the end of this year. This novel toxin has demonstrated a rapid onset of action as well as a short duration of effect, meaningfully lowering the barrier for toxin adoption across consumers who have been considering but hesitant to try Botox. Given this profile, BoNT/E has significant market expansion potential as satisfied patients would naturally convert to Botox. Overall, the underlying trends across our aesthetics portfolio align well with our previous expectations and we remain on track to deliver high-single-digit global aesthetics growth this year.

Thakkar: Thank you, Carrie. I'll start with immunology. We recently announced positive top-line results from 2 Phase III studies for Rinvoq in dermatology and rheumatology. In the LEVEL UP study, which evaluated Rinvoq against dupilumab in atopic dermatitis, Rinvoq demonstrated superiority on the primary endpoint at week 16, which was a composite endpoint measuring skin clearance and itch reduction. Twice as many Rinvoq patients achieved this very stringent endpoint compared to dupilumab. Rinvoq also demonstrated superiority on all rank secondary endpoints in this trial. LEVEL UP was a study in which patients started on Rinvoq 15 milligrams and could escalate to 30 milligrams if they did not achieve treatment goals, which is how Rinvoq is prescribed for atopic dermatitis in the U.S. We also saw very rapid responses with Rinvoq demonstrating superiority on itch as early as week two and on skin lesions as early as week four. Rinvoq's safety profile in the LEVEL UP trial was consistent with what has been observed in previous studies. There were no serious infections in patients treated with Rinvoq and one in the dupilumab group. The rate of serious adverse events was similar across treatment arms. There were no malignancies, MACE events or VTEs reported in either treatment group. Based on these data as well as results from previous Phase III studies, we remain very confident in Rinvoq's profile in atopic dermatitis, and we believe it offers meaningful advantages over other products on the market today. We also announced positive top-line results from our Phase III select giant cell arthritis trial, which evaluated Rinvoq in combination with a 26-week steroid taper regimen compared to patients receiving placebo in combination with a 52-week steroid taper. In the study, Rinvoq 15 milligrams met the primary and key secondary endpoints, demonstrating superiority on sustained remission from week 12 through week 52, as well as on disease flare and reduction in cumulative steroid exposure at week 52. Importantly, Rinvoq's safety profile was consistent with what has been observed in more than 15,000 patients previously studied across controlled trials. The mean age in this population was 71, which is the oldest population studied to date with Rinvoq. And the average prednisone equivalent dose at baseline was almost 35 milligram. Rates of serious adverse events and VTEs were similar across treatment groups. There were no MACE events in the Rinvoq arm, while there were two in the placebo group. Based on the results from the select GCA trial, we believe Rinvoq has the potential to be a safe and tolerable oral treatment option. We plan to submit our regulatory applications for this indication later this year. We continue to make very good progress with our inflammatory bowel disease programs. We anticipate several advancements this year, including the initiation of a Phase II study for lutikizumab in ulcerative colitis. The start of our Phase II Crohn's disease platform study, which will evaluate combinations of Skyrizi with lutikizumab and other novel biologics. And we remain on track for approval decisions for Skyrizi in ulcerative colitis, with the U.S. expected in the second quarter and Europe in the second half of the year. We also continue to invest in external innovation to expand our immunology pipeline, as evidenced by four deals that we announced in the first quarter. These include the acquisition of Landos Biopharma, which brings an oral NLRX1 agonist currently in Phase II for ulcerative colitis, a partnership with OSE immunotherapeutics to develop a novel ChemR23 agonist antibody for inflammatory conditions, such as IBD and RA. A collaboration with Parvus Therapeutics to utilize their immune tolerization platform to develop novel therapies for IBD, and a collaboration with Tentarix Biotherapeutics to develop conditionally active, multi-specific biologics in immunology and oncology. We are excited to partner with these companies who are all pursuing very innovative approaches to developing transformative therapies. Moving to oncology, where in the quarter, we closed the ImmunoGen transaction, which brings exciting programs in both solid and blood cancers. Last month, Elahere received full approval from the FDA for FR alpha positive platinum resistant ovarian cancer in patients treated with up to three prior therapies. This conversion to full approval was based on data from the confirmatory Phase III MIRASOL trial, where Elahere demonstrated an overall survival benefit and significantly reduced the risk of cancer progression. We expect to see results from additional ImmunoGen programs this year, including data from the Phase II PICCOLO study evaluating Elahere as a monotherapy in FR alpha positive third line plus platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer patients who are not eligible for retreatment with platinum-based therapies. And we expect to see data in the second half of the year from a potentially registration-enabling Phase II trial for our CD123 targeting ADC, Pivek in a rare blood cancer called blastic plasmacytoid dendritic cell neoplasm. Now moving to program updates in hematologic oncology. Based on the totality of the data from our TRANSFORM-1 trial and following recent feedback from regulators, we will not be submitting navitoclax for approval in myelofibrosis, and we will wind down the TRANSFORM-2 study, in the relapsed refractory setting. In other areas of , we remain on track for several regulatory and clinical milestones this year, including regulatory approvals in the U.S. and Europe for a Epinkly in relapsed/refractory follicular lymphoma. The Phase III readout from the Venclexta VERONA trial, in treatment-naive, higher-risk MDS and initiation of a Phase III monotherapy study for ABBV-383 in third-line multiple myeloma. We remain very excited about this asset's potential to become a best-in-class BCMA CD3 bispecific by providing deep, durable responses and low incidence and severity of CRS and with the potential for outpatient administration, limited or no step-up dosing and monthly administration from the beginning of treatment. Moving to other areas of our pipeline. In aesthetics, we remain on track to submit our regulatory application for BoNT/E in the second half of the year. Our rapid onset short-acting toxin as a highly differentiated clinical profile compared to currently available neurotoxins. BoNT/E is designed for patients that are considering using facial toxins for the first time or for a special event and will allow them to experience results over a very short period of time. This novel toxin will complement our existing business as patients would naturally transition to BOTOX following experience with this trial toxin. And in neuroscience, we continue to make good progress with 951, where we have received regulatory approvals in 33 countries thus far and anticipate an approval decision in the U.S. in the second quarter. As Rob mentioned, we remain on track to close the Cerevel transaction in the middle of this year. Cerevel recently announced positive top line results from their Phase III TEMPO-3 trial evaluating Tavapadon as adjunctive therapy to levodopa in patients with Parkinson's disease. In study, Tavapadon met the primary endpoint, demonstrating a 1.1 hour increase in total on time without troublesome dyskinesia compared to patients treated with levodopa and placebo. Tavapadon also met the key secondary endpoint in the trial, providing a significant reduction in off time compared to levodopa and placebo. Two additional Phase III studies for Tavapadon in Parkinson's disease are expected to read out later this year. The emracladine pivotal studies in schizophrenia remain on track to begin reading out later this year as well. We look forward to providing updates on these programs once the transaction has closed.

Michael: This is Rob. I'll take that question. So if you think about ’24, ‘25. I mean, clearly, the ex-Humira growth platform is demonstrating great momentum. If you just think about Skyrizi and Rinvoq alone are growing by more than $4 billion per year. Aesthetics will recover to high single-digit growth. Our neuroscience franchise will grow by over $1 billion this year on the heels of strong momentum for Vraylar and our migraine portfolio and we will have incremental contributions from Vyalev and Elahere in '25. So we have several drivers that will offset Humira erosion next year as well as the Part D benefit redesign impact and allow us to still deliver robust revenue growth. When you think about that redesign impact, it will really spread across our business, most concentrated in immunology and oncology. And we would estimate that total revenue impact could be worth several points of growth, while we'll still deliver robust revenue growth, we will have that headwind in '25. But keep in mind, for us, the IRA impact really hits us in '25 and isn't a significant headwind in the years that follow as products that are subject to negotiation will not have that Part D cost share impact. So the way to think about it is despite that headwind in '25, we will still deliver robust growth, with that growth rate accelerating in the years that follow. And then if you think about on a margin perspective, we're going to continue to expand operating margins. So that will be a tailwind. You should be, though modeling annualization of interest expense from these transactions. And keep in mind that we essentially would have -- think of it as a roughly half year for Cereval and 10.5 months this year for ImmunoGen. So that should be something that you do model for '25. So we'll have robust revenue growth we'll have earnings growth, not quite at the rate of the revenue growth because of that annualization impact. But then when you get to ‘26 and beyond, you have even faster revenue growth and very robust earnings growth. So that's probably the best way to think about the profile of the company. But when you look at that ex-Humira growth platform, there's a lot of momentum there and we are very well positioned to deliver very robust growth.

Divan: So maybe I could just ask a couple on the aesthetics side. It sounds like your commentary is pretty generally in line with Liz said before, but obviously, the number was a little lighter this quarter than even to your guidance that what people are expecting so. Can you maybe just talk a little bit more about that you mentioned some shift in promotional efforts to the second quarter and maybe inventory levels then as a result being lower and maybe I don't know if you can quantify that a little bit? And was this sort of planned when you gave your guidance back in February or is this something that's sort of evolved over the quarter? Maybe just kind of why the decision maybe would be helpful to give us some comfort on the outlook there?

Strom: This is Carrie. So first, I'll give a little bit of context to the fundamentals in terms of market growth and market share, which were in line with our expectations. So our market share continues to be strong and stable. For Botox Cosmetic, despite a new competitor, strong stable share at high levels. And then for our Juvederm line continued share strength, even some share pickup in in the past few quarters, as we launch our new products. So like you said, those fundamentals are in line with our expectations. As we were going through the quarter, we really realized that the aesthetics market is quite sensitive to seasonality with Q2 and Q4 typically having the highest volume. And after a few years of COVID and economic disruption, we're now anticipating a return to that typical seasonality. So we shifted investment in some of our sales and marketing efforts into Q2, which impacted customer and sales promotional timing and activities, which then resulted in lower inventory held by our customers in Q1. And we do expect that to come back in Q2 and the rest year.

Reents: Sure. Thanks, Carrie. So Vamil to quantify the inventory impact in the first quarter, it was a little bit more than $50 million between Juvederm and Botox and you can think of that as being split roughly 2/3 to about and 1/3 to Juvederm. And I think as Carrie mentioned in her remarks that impact of that inventory will -- we expect that to turn in the second quarter.

Shibutani: When we think about the 2024 upcoming contracting season, which obviously has been quite dynamic for Humira over the past year plus. Can you provide us with any insights in terms of structural aspects within your contracts that you build in that may help provide offsets. We often have limited visibility. We're looking at the prescription volume trends. And it feels as if our calculus is sometimes incomplete. But what can you reassure us in terms of the dynamics as we're seeing this year two play out and how you're approaching contracting for the forward?

Schott: Just a couple more on the Humira front. I think Humira you had mentioned that in 2024, you expected most of the impact would be price versus volume. I think the street has been concerned that we're seeing more volume erosion, particularly with the CVS book of business. I'm just interested in your latest thinking as we think about price versus volume for the remainder of this year as we consider CVS , et cetera. How should we think about that balance just so there's kind of surprises, I guess we watch these volume trends playing out? And then maybe just on a related topic, can you talk at all about the tail for Humira sales in the U.S.? I guess the part of the question, do you expect that you'll see most players or payers eventually switch out Humira like we're seeing at CVS? And if so, is it still reasonable to think about there being a kind of a decent tale of revenue, I guess, for this product in the U.S. over time?

Ryan: There's a lot in there. Let me go through it in a systematic fashion. So I think, first, to directly answer your question. We still as we look forward, believe that the significant majority of our lives will be at parity. So that means our guidance around the majority being price is still holding in our go-forward look. Let me give you some perspective. I had some in my opening remarks over what's happening with CVS. So the first is that, as I mentioned, the step down in volume was really anticipated and based on our analysis of the data, which I'll highlight, it's really right in line with our expectations. Now one of the things in my remarks, I often talk about new to brand or our in-play share capture, and that's a really good way to look at performance, particularly early in launch cycles when you're looking at capture rate or competitive dynamics. I think it's important that investors and analysts need to be very mindful when you have a dislocation or disruption or switching, you can get very, very full at looking at NRx or NBRx because it sort of overinflates what you might be looking at. So I think that's important. The other fact base that we look at is in terms of the step down is we look at other analogs and we look at the Cosentyx Taltz analog or Taltz was advantage in ESI for Cosentyx back in 2019. And we see that typically in this category, almost 90% of the erosion tracks within the first two to three weeks. And that's actually what we're starting to see, we believe with the CVS template following that similar pattern. So if you can't really look at NRx or NBRx, you really have to look at TRx in this case, Chris. And this is very interesting. And we would make sure to guide folks to look at what's happening with the TRx data in the market. And what we see is that not all of the Humira prescriptions are moving to a biosimilar. And if you look at the first two weeks, it's pretty meaningful. Over 20% of the Humira prescriptions are moving to other mechanisms of actions, including Skyrizi and Rinvoq. And in fact, while we haven't studied this week as much, it actually seems to have accelerated a bit from there. And that actually makes some sense because if you think it from the physician's perspective, when patients are being switched, they often take a break in a pause to say, are these patients really under control, should I consider an alternative. And that's actually what we see playing out in the market. So the pure degradation or step-down from Humira is in line with what we see, but we are seeing a fairly significant move to other mechanisms, as I mentioned, including our own Skyrizi and Rinvoq. And that could be very, very good for patients who are probably getting better care for control of their disease. Now having said that as well, if we look through the rest of '24, we have very solid contracts with our payers through 2024. And remember that these payers can add biosimilars at parity whenever they choose. We saw that last year in the middle of the year, and that's really not different now. So when we look at the structure and controls of our existing agreements, we do not see widespread exclusions for the rest of the year, as we go forward. And so I think we've been pretty consistent with that that select clients will move towards biosimilars over the course of the year. Last year, we saw that with Kaiser and Medicaid plans. We talked about the CVS exclusion for the template business. And we do see that some select plans may take another approach, which we've contemplated as the year goes on, which is they may move new patients to the biosimilar, but maintain the large existing base. And that's quite manageable because really only about 14% or 15% of the patients are new patients that cycle into Humira. So overall, that's our perspective. We're confident things are tracking in line. We're quite interested in this shift to other mechanisms, which is frankly somewhat anticipated, but maybe operating a little higher than we thought, and we still believe that a significant majority of Humira will see it at parity lives in '24. Okay. So the tail we're going to be negotiating '25. And what we've highlighted is we are going to watch exactly how the interchangeables play out. We think we've got a good understanding of that. And so it will probably become more apparent as we move through '25 where that tail may sit. And we've highlighted that it may start to emerge in '25 and probably be much more visible by '26. And that's going to ultimately depend on how over the course of '25, the price volume fully plays out in the marketplace.

Michael: And Chris, this is Rob. On your question regarding the guidance for this year. I think it's important to note yes, we've said that the vast majority of the erosion is price. We've talked about that dynamic. If you think about first half, second half, we have the annualization impact given the mid-year step-up in rebates last year. So the annualization impact comes through in the first half, you'd expect price erosion to be greater in the first half or the second half. But at the same time, we did contemplate volume erosion because we were very well aware of the CVS contract. We gave you that guidance. And so we have contemplated that volume erosion, but that's more of a second half versus first half as well as the potential for we knew with an interchangeable coming in, there could be some marginal amount of volume pickup there. So we did put in volume erosion in our guidance, but the vast majority of it is price, but I don't want investors to think that we didn't put any volume into our guidance. We were very well aware of the CVS contract. And I think we made some prudent assumptions on potentially other impacts.

Stewart: Thank you, Rob. We continue to demonstrate strong commercial execution across our therapeutic portfolio. I’ll start with the quarterly results for immunology, which delivered total revenues of approximately $7 billion. Skyrizi and Rinvoq are performing exceptionally well, contributing more than $4.1 billion in combined sales this quarter, reflecting operational growth of 50% in their fifth full year on the market. These assets are approved across a broad set of indications and are collectively supported by nine compelling head-to-head studies that demonstrate clear differentiation across multiple novel therapies, which has resulted in strong share capture. For Skyrizi, we continue to advance our clear leadership position in psoriasis, where total prescription share of the U.S. biologic market has increased to approximately 38%. Share is also ramping nicely in PSA, especially in the dermatology segment, where Skyrizi has achieved roughly 15% total prescription share in the U.S. biologic market. And for Rinvoq, we are seeing increasing share across each of the rheum indications, as well as additional momentum in atopic dermatitis, including total prescription share of 10% in the U.S. We are very excited about the growth potential in gastroenterology, where Skyrizi and Rinvoq are on pace to double their respective sales in IBD this year. The adoption in Crohn’s disease has been impressive, with Skyrizi and Rinvoq now achieving a combined in-place share in the U.S. of more than 40%. Skyrizi has achieved overall in-place share leadership in Crohn’s, with in-place share approximately now 13 points ahead of Stelara, following our compelling head-to-head sequence data published last year. This positive trial, which demonstrated Skyrizi’s high efficacy versus Stelara, including a more than doubling of effect in endoscopic remission has driven a significant inflection in performance and we anticipate continued share momentum. Commercialization for Skyrizi and ulcerative colitis is now underway in the U.S., with broad formulary access anticipated to ramp quickly over the next several months. Early feedback from gastroenterologists has been very encouraging, with Skyrizi’s UC data viewed as impressive, particularly for naïve patients who have not been exposed to biologics. We also expect the European launch in the coming months. We also see very robust adoption of Rinvoq in UC, where the brand is now achieving a leading in-place share in the U.S. Internationally, Rinvoq UC is now approved in 75 countries, with reimbursement and share gaining momentum. Having two novel therapies that each deliver differentiated levels of efficacy to treat both of these IBD conditions demonstrates our commitment to transforming the treatment landscape for physicians and patients in this area of high unmet need. Turning now to Humira, which delivered global sales of $2.8 billion, down 28.9% on an operational basis due to biosimilar competition. Erosion in the U.S. was in line with our expectations in the quarter and our guidance complicates -- contemplates the impact of additional formulary changes over the course of the year. Importantly, we continue to anticipate that Humira will maintain parity access to biosimilars for a significant majority of patient lives this year. Moving now to oncology, where total revenues were more than $1.6 billion. Imbruvica global revenues were $833 million, down 8.2, reflecting continued competitive dynamics in CLL. Venclexta global sales were $637 million, up 15.8 on an operational basis, with strong momentum across CLL and AML. Elahere is also performing very well, with sales of $128 million and our compelling overall survival data, recent positive updates in the NCCN guidelines and the expansion of commercial resources will continue to drive rapid uptake. Lastly, we continue to be pleased with the prescription trends for Epkinly in DLBCL. Commercialization is now underway for Epkinly’s second indication, follicular lymphoma, in the U.S., with European approval expected later this year. Neuroscience total revenues were nearly $2.2 billion, up 15.2% on an operational basis. This robust performance is driven by continued double-digit growth of Vraylar, with global sales of $774 million, Ubrelvy with total revenue of $231 million and Qulipta with global sales of $150 million. Each of these leading assets continue to gain share and remain competitively well-positioned. Botox Therapeutic is also performing well, especially in chronic migraine. Total global sales were $814 million, up 9.6% on an operational basis. Finally, we are pleased with the early launch trends for 951 in Japan and Europe, and look forward to bringing this innovative therapy for advanced Parkinson’s to the U.S. soon. Overall, I’m extremely pleased with the momentum across the therapeutic portfolio. And with that, I’ll turn the call over to Carrie for additional comments on aesthetics. Carrie?

Strom: Thank you, Jeff. Second quarter global aesthetic sales were approximately $1.4 billion, representing growth of 2.8% on an operational basis. In the U.S., aesthetic sales of $863 million increased by 4.4%, driven by Botox Cosmetic and Juvederm growth of 7.1% and 10.4%, respectively. This toxin and filler performance is supported by a consistent recovery in the facial injectable market, as the number of procedures in both categories increased by a mid-single-digit percentage versus the prior year. However, this level of market growth was lower than previously anticipated. Sales for Botox Cosmetic and Juvederm also benefited from a partial reversal of the prior quarter’s inventory destock, which was related to the timing of certain promotional activities. From a competitive perspective, our U.S. facial injectable portfolio remains the clear market leader, with strong and stable market share. Internationally, second quarter aesthetic sales were $527 million, roughly flat versus the prior year on an operational basis, as declines in China were balanced by growth in other international markets. In China, our largest international market, sales growth continued to be impacted by sustained economic headwinds, as well as a challenging comparison to the second quarter of last year, which benefited from a strong post-COVID recovery. Consistent with what we experienced in the U.S., economic challenges have impacted Juvederm sales growth more than other areas of our portfolio, based upon Juvederm’s relatively higher price point. Looking to the rest of the year, we expect our market-leading aesthetics portfolio to continue to perform well from a competitive perspective across the globe. As we evaluate market dynamics and leading economic indicators, particularly in the U.S. and China, market growth trends are below our prior expectations. Based upon this, we have moderated our outlook for the remainder of the year. Despite this near-term dynamic, we remain confident in the long-term growth outlook of our aesthetics portfolio. Global market penetration rates are extremely low and we expect long-term market growth to accelerate from current levels as economic conditions improve. As the market leader, we are also committed to driving growth by activating new patients and launching innovative treatment options. For example, in China, launch activities are underway for the Botox Cosmetic masseter muscle prominence indication. And in the U.S., we will soon launch Juvederm VOLUMA XC for the treatment of temple hollowing and we expect an approval for Botox Cosmetic in the platysma prominence indication by the end of the year. Pipeline catalysts like these in the key U.S. and China markets, along with our significant investment in consumer activation, injector training and practice support, will enable us to grow the aesthetics market and maintain our clear leadership position over the long-term. With that, I’ll turn the call over to

Thakkar: Thank you, Carrie. We continue to make very good progress advancing our pipeline with several regulatory and clinical milestones since our last earnings call. I will start with immunology. We received FDA approval for Skyrizi in ulcerative colitis, which marks its second inflammatory bowel disease indication. Skyrizi is now the only IL-23 specific inhibitor approved for both ulcerative colitis and Crohn’s disease. Skyrizi has proven to be a highly effective, durable, safe and well-tolerated treatment option for patients with moderate to severe inflammatory bowel disease. And this recent approval further strengthens AbbVie’s leadership position in this market. We also received a positive CHMP opinion recommending Skyrizi for the treatment of moderate to severe ulcerative colitis in Europe, with an approval decision anticipated soon. Earlier this month, we submitted our regulatory applications in the U.S. and Europe for Rinvoq and giant cell arteritis. Our submissions are based on the previously announced Phase 3 results from our SELECT-GCA trial, where Rinvoq demonstrated superiority compared to placebo on sustained remission from week 12 through week 52 on disease flare and showed a reduction in total steroid exposure at week 52. We expect approval decisions for this indication next year. We also recently began a Phase 3 study for lutikizumab, our anti-IL-1-alpha-beta-bispecific in hidradenitis suppurativa. HS is a skin disease that can be debilitating and there are limited treatment options. In our Phase 2 study, lutikizumab demonstrated strong clinical response rates and improvement in skin pain in a very refractory patient population. Based on these results, we believe lutikizumab has the potential to become an important new treatment option for patients with moderate to severe HS. We look forward to providing updates on the Phase 3 program as the data become available. In the second quarter, we announced two additional immunology transactions as we continue to invest in external innovation to expand our pipeline. These include the acquisition of Celsius Therapeutics, which brings a Phase 2 ready anti-TREM1 antibody for IBD and a license agreement with FutureGen to develop a next-generation anti-TL1A antibody for IBD that is designed to have less frequent dosing compared to other TL1As in development and will be evaluated in combination with Skyrizi. This follows the four immunology deals we announced earlier this year, which, as a reminder, included the acquisition of Landos and their oral NLRX1 agonist in Phase 2 for UC, a partnership with OSE to develop a novel ChemR23 agonist for IBD and RA, a collaboration with Parvus to utilize their immune tolerization platform for novel IBD therapies and a collaboration with Tentarix to develop conditionally active multi-specific biologics in immunology and oncology. Moving to oncology, where we continue to make very good progress across all stages of our heme and solid tumor pipeline. In the area of solid tumors, we recently announced positive topline results from our Phase 2 PICCOLO study evaluating Elahere as a monotherapy in ER alpha positive third-line plus platinum-sensitive ovarian cancer for those not eligible for retreatment with platinum-based therapies. Elahere met the primary and key secondary endpoints in the study, demonstrating an objective response rate of 52% and median duration of response of 8.25 month. Detailed results will be presented at an upcoming medical congress. Following discussions with the FDA, we will be submitting to Teliso-V for accelerated approval as a monotherapy in patients with previously treated c-Met overexpressing EGFR wild-type non-squamous, non-small-cell lung cancer. This submission will be reviewed under FDA’s real-time oncology review program. Teliso-V has also received breakthrough therapy designation from the FDA. Our submission will be based on the results of our Phase 2 LUMINOSITY study, where Teliso-V demonstrated strong clinical benefits across key endpoints, including overall response rate, duration of response and overall survival, with a tolerable safety profile. Submission is expected in the third quarter, with an approval decision anticipated in 2025. The confirmatory Phase 3 study for this potential accelerated approval is currently ongoing. We continue to see encouraging data for ABBV-400, our next generation c-Met ADC, which uses a topo payload. Recall that we’ve advanced 400 in late-line colorectal cancer based on the deep responses and prolonged durability observed as a monotherapy in our Phase 1 trial. And we remain on track to begin a Phase 3 study later this year in third-line CRC. We’re also seeing encouraging signals of activity for this next-gen ADC in the non-small-cell lung cancer cohort from our Phase 1 study. The preliminary data will be presented at an upcoming medical meeting. And based on the emerging Phase 1 results, we plan to begin a Phase 2 program for 400 in lung cancer. In the area of hematologic oncology, we received accelerated approval in the U.S. for Epkinly as a monotherapy treatment for patients with relapsed refractory follicular lymphoma after two or more lines of prior therapy. Epkinly is now the only T-cell engaging bispecific approved in the U.S. to treat both follicular lymphoma and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. We’re extremely excited to bring this new subcutaneous treatment option to patients suffering from follicular lymphoma. We also recently received positive CHMP opinion with an approval decision in Europe expected later this year. In the quarter, we initiated a Phase 3 monotherapy study for ABBV-383 in third-line multiple myeloma. 383 is designed for high affinity binding to BCMA on malignant cells and low affinity binding to a unique CD3 epitope on T-cells, which has the potential to mitigate some of the adverse events associated with other T-cell engaging BCMA-based therapies while preserving high levels of efficacy. We remain excited about this asset’s potential to become a best-in-class BCMA CD3 bispecific by providing deep, durable responses and low incidence and severity of CRS, with the potential for outpatient administration, limited or no step-up dosing and monthly administration from the beginning of treatment. In addition to our Phase 3 monotherapy program, we have an ongoing Phase 1 study in later lines of multiple myeloma to evaluate 383 in various combinations, including with Pomalyst, Revlimid and Darzalex. Based on this work, we will begin Phase 2 combination studies in earlier lines of therapy next year. Moving to neuroscience, where in the quarter we announced that we received a complete response letter for our 951 regulatory application in the U.S. The CRL is based on observations identified during an inspection at a third-party manufacturing site that was unrelated to 951. The CRL did not identify any issues related to the safety, efficacy or labeling of 951, nor has the FDA requested any additional clinical data or device-related testing. We’re working closely with the site and the FDA to get clarity on timelines and we’ll provide updates as soon as information becomes available. Moving to an update on one of our Alzheimer’s disease programs. We recently completed an interim analysis of a Phase 2 study evaluating ABBV-916, our A-beta antibody. The emerging efficacy and safety profile in this study is similar to what has been demonstrated by approved agents. However, given the evolving landscape, we do not believe 916 as a monotherapy treatment will be sufficiently differentiated from other emerging therapies. As a result, we are discontinuing further development for 916 as a standalone antibody. As Rob mentioned, we remain on track to close the Cerevel transaction soon and we look forward to welcoming the team into our R&D organization. The emraclidine pivotal studies in schizophrenia remain on track to begin reading out near the end of this year. We’ll also see data from two additional Phase 3 studies for davapidon in Parkinson’s disease later this year. We look forward to providing updates on these programs once the transaction has closed and data are available. In aesthetics, we recently received approval for Botox in China for masseter muscle prominence, marking the first global approval in this indication for any neurotoxin. Masseter prominence is common in Asian populations and there is significant unmet need for minimally invasive treatment options. We anticipate high demand for Botox in this novel indication in China, which will help to further build our portfolio in the face-shaping segment. A regulatory application is under review in the U.S. for Botox and platysma prominence, which is another novel indication that will help build our position in the lower face and neck segment. We continue to expect an FDA approval decision later this year. And we remain on track to submit a regulatory application for BoNT/E near the end of this year. A rapid-onset, short-acting toxin has a highly differentiated clinical profile and once approved would offer patients a novel option compared to currently available toxins. So, in summary, we’ve made great progress across all of our therapeutic areas in the first half of the year and we look forward to additional data readouts, regulatory submissions and approvals throughout the remainder of 2024. With that, I’ll turn the call over to

Strom: Hi. This is Carrie. I’ll address the questions. So, first let’s talk about the market dynamics for market growth in the U.S. for facial injectables. So, late last year, we started to see a recovery and a return to growth of the toxin market and we’ve seen that market growth recovery continue this year in that mid-single-digit range. And that’s volume, that is traffic into our customers’ offices and that’s really been consistent for the past few quarters. So, the market dynamics for our business are really driven by patient demand and volume. Although, when we think about price, price is a factor that we’ll be looking for the second half of the year, which will give us some favorable pricing dynamics. We did take a price action at the beginning of the year for toxins and then we’ll have some more efficiency when it comes to our strategic shifts in our pricing promotions for the second half of the year. So, one example of that would be promotions we did last year, for example, around competitive launches that we won’t need to do this year based on the success of our competitive strategy last year. So really our performance is driven by market growth and we also had some nice stability in our market share. Anything you’d like to add?

Stewart: Maybe because it’s worth mentioning, so some of that shift in promotional activity that you mentioned, we did talk about in the first quarter that that was a destocking that occurred of inventory levels. And when Carrie made her remarks and we spoke about it last quarter, we said that would reverse over time. We did see that reversing in the second quarter on a partial basis. And when you think about the reversal of that Q1 destock, you can think about from the U.S. market that really would reduce by 50% or cut in half the growth rates we published for the actual results for both Botox and Juvederm. So we saw that partial reversal of that destocking event and then we will see that continue to unwind throughout the course of the year, especially as we have some of our larger promotional activities and the back half of the year with Botox Day and Juvederm Day, we do see typically an inventory, a stocking uplift from those activities.

Bansal: Great. Thanks for taking my question. I just wanted to talk a little bit about the pipeline in IBD space as well. I mean, you have done a bunch of these and then there has been some movement, especially in the oral IBD drugs as well. I mean, given your expertise, I would love to understand, how do you think about a pipeline moving beyond the likes of Skyrizi, IL-17s and all, because these drugs are pretty good. But when you think about an oral, what is the ideal profile of the drug that could be a first-line drug and then when you think about combinations, I mean, what are you exactly looking for?

Stewart: Thank you, Rob. I’m extremely pleased with the continued strong momentum across the therapeutic portfolio. I’ll start with the quarterly results for immunology, which delivered total revenues of more than $7 billion up 4.8% on an operational basis. Skyrizi global sales were $3.2 billion up 51.5% on an operational basis, exceeding our expectations. We are seeing robust prescription growth across psoriatic disease, with Skyrizi achieving in-play biologic share leadership in approximately now 30 key countries. In the U.S, we continue to capture nearly one out of every two in-play psoriatic disease patients on biologic therapy and we see substantial room for further total share growth. We believe that Skyrizi’s best-in-class profile with nearly complete skin clearance, high durability of response, easy onboarding and quarterly dosing for maintenance therapy sets a very high bar relative to other therapies on market or in development. Skyrizi has also demonstrated a compelling clinical profile in IBD, including strong endoscopic data paired with convenient dosing. This differentiated profile as well as our compelling head-to-head sequence data versus Stelara is supporting very rapid uptake in Crohn’s disease, where Skyrizi continues to gain market share globally, achieving in-play patient leadership across all lines of therapy in the U.S, Japan and Canada. Skyrizi’s U.S. in-play patient share is now approximately 32%, more than double the share of the second biologic treatment. And with Skyrizi’s total prescription share of approximately 8%, we see significant opportunity for revenue inflection in Crohn’s going forward. While we are still very early in our launch in the U.S. and Europe, we also anticipate robust uptake for Skyrizi in ulcerative colitis the new indication. Initial prescription trends as well as feedback from gastroenterologists have been overwhelmingly positive. Physicians are particularly impressed with the data that has been demonstrated for naive UC patients, who have not been exposed yet to biologics, where Skyrizi achieved very high results for clinical remission and endoscopic response. We have now secured broad formulary access for Skyrizi in UC, with sales in this indication expected to ramp meaningfully over the next several quarters. So, given the momentum we are seeing across all of these indications, we will be raising our full-year sales guidance once again for Skyrizi. Turning now to Rinvoq, which is also demonstrating robust growth. Global sales were $1.6 billion up 47.4% on an operational basis. We continue to see strong prescription growth across all seven of Rinvoq’s approved indications. I’m especially pleased with our performance in IBD, where Rinvoq’s uptake is exceeding our expectations. Rinvoq is now capturing double-digit in-play patient share in the U.S. for ulcerative colitis as well as Crohn’s disease. Both indications are now available in more than 75 countries with reimbursement and share continuing to increase. I also wanted to highlight our recent performance in atopic dermatitis, where Rinvoq is seeing an acceleration of in-play share following recent positive data from our second head-to-head study versus Dupixent. As an oral option that provides rapid skin clearance and itch relief, we believe Rinvoq’s strong differentiated profile will continue to compete well in this highly underpenetrated AD market. As a result of this continued strong performance, we will also be increasing the full-year sales guidance once again for Rinvoq. Looking forward, we see substantial momentum for both Skyrizi and Rinvoq, including continued share gains across existing indications on top of the typical underlying market growth across room, derm and gastro. Additionally, we are making excellent progress with several new indications for Rinvoq across sizable markets that will have the potential to provide another significant revenue inflection in the second half of this decade and into the 2030s. From a competitive perspective, a key element of Skyrizi and Rinvoq’s success has been their strong differentiation with compelling head-to-head data against several novel therapies. This includes Skyrizi superiority versus Humira, Cosentyx, Otezla and Stelara in psoriasis as well as Stelara in Crohn’s disease and Rinvoq superiority versus Humira and Orencia in rheumatoid arthritis as well as Dupixent in atopic dermatitis. To further support our differentiation, we have another head-to-head study ongoing for Skyrizi versus Sotyktu in psoriasis with plans also underway now for a study comparing Skyrizi versus Entyvio in ulcerative colitis. So given all of these factors, we feel very confident about the long-term growth prospects for both Skyrizi and Rinvoq. Turning now to Humira, which delivered global sales of $2.2 billion down 36.5% on an operational basis due to biosimilar competition. While Humira share erosion to biosimilars in the U.S. is largely in-line with our expectations, we are now seeing more Humira molecule volume moving to other novel mechanisms than previously anticipated. So, while this has an unfavorable impact to Humira sales, we are seeing a benefit to Skyrizi and Rinvoq, which is a very favorable dynamic for immunology portfolio now and certainly over the long-term. Moving now to Oncology, where total revenues were approximately $1.7 billion Imbruvica global revenues were $828 million down 8.8%, reflecting continued competitive dynamics in CLL, partially offset by higher persistency rates for existing patients. Venclexta is performing extremely well. Global sales were $677 million up 18.2% on an operational basis. This reflects strong momentum in CLL, especially in Europe, where recent guideline changes recommend combination use of Venclexta Plus BTK inhibitors as a preferred fixed duration treatment versus continuous BTK treatment alone. Growth is also supported by our very strong share position in frontline AML, where Venclexta is the leading treatment for patients who are ineligible for intensive induction chemotherapy. We are also seeing nice sequential revenue growth from Elahere and Epkinly, which are both demonstrating strong launch trajectories. Turning now to neuroscience, where total revenues were more than $2.3 billion up 16% on an operational basis. Vraylar is demonstrating robust performance. Sales were $875 million up 16.6% on an operational basis, reflecting continued new prescription growth in both bipolar disorder and adjunctive MDD. Within migraine, our leading oral CGRP therapies contributed $445 million in combined revenue this quarter, reflecting growth of approximately 22%, as we continue to see increasing prescription demand for both Ubrelvy and Qulipta. Global Botox Therapeutic sales were $848 million reflecting strong performance in chronic migraine as well as the other approved indications. Finally, we are very excited for the recent U.S. approval of Vyalev, a transformative therapy for patients with advanced Parkinson’s disease, who are uncontrolled on oral therapy alone. As a less invasive, non-surgical delivery system that can provide meaningful improvements in on-time and off-time, we believe Vyalev has the potential to significantly expand use beyond current device aided therapies. Sales in the U.S. for Vyalev are expected to ramp gradually over the next several quarters as we work to establish the appropriate Medicare coverage and benefit determination. At the same time, we are very encouraged by the interest in uptake internationally, where we have approval now in 35 countries with several thousand patients already on treatment. Longer-term, we anticipate peak sales of Vyalev to exceed $1 billion. So overall, I’m very pleased with the continued commercial execution and performance across the therapeutic portfolio. And with that, I’ll turn the call over to Carrie, for additional comments on aesthetics. Carrie?

Strom: Thank you, Jeff. Third quarter global aesthetics sales were more than $1.2 billion representing growth of 1.8% on an operational basis. In the U.S, aesthetic sales of $791 million increased by 3.9%, driven by growth from Botox Cosmetic as well as other brands across our broad portfolio. U.S. Botox Cosmetic sales were $414 million an increase of 6.5% versus the prior year. Favorable pricing dynamics and facial toxin market growth more than offset modest share erosion. Botox Cosmetics remains the clear market leader. U.S. Juvederm sales were $105 million. Juvederm’s market-leading share was consistent with last year and the overall filler market was roughly flat to the prior year. While the U.S. facial injectable market remains largely stable, growth is below historical rates. As a result, there is a reluctance from customers to maintain traditional toxin and filler inventory levels. Based upon the relatively higher price point of filler procedures in a still challenging U.S. economic environment, Juvederm is more impacted by this dynamic, which can be seen in third quarter results. Internationally, aesthetic sales were $448 million reflecting a decline of 1.6% on an operational basis. Within China, the economic dynamics that weighed on our results during the first half of the year have continued to impact consumer spending. This has created challenging aesthetic market conditions that have been particularly impactful to Juvederm’s performance. Primarily due to this circumstance, we are moderating our Juvederm sales outlook for the year. We are encouraged by the recently announced government stimulus in China. We will continue to monitor for any further developments and how it could positively impact consumer discretionary spending and aesthetic market growth. Although the current dynamics in China are challenging, its potential remains attractive and we are committed to bring innovation to this market that will drive long-term growth. Along those lines, in China, we recently received approval for the Botox Cosmetic indication in masseter muscle prominence, marking the first toxin in the world to have this indication. This approval enables us to market and train to this important treatment option that addresses a top aesthetic concern among many Asian patients. In the U.S., we are pleased that we received FDA approval for the use of Botox Cosmetic to treat platysma bands. This approval positions Botox as the only cosmetic toxin with four distinct indications and enables us to market and train beyond the face for the improvement of neck and jawline appearance. We also remain excited about the opportunity for BoNT/E. Based upon its rapid onset and short acting profile, BoNT/E has the potential to activate new patients that are hesitant to try facial toxins, driving long-term market expansion. Looking to the future, we continue to see significant growth potential for our aesthetics portfolio based upon low market penetration rates, our commitment to introduce novel treatments, our strong customer relationships and our position as the global aesthetics leader. With that, I’ll turn the call over to

Thakkar: Thank you, Carrie. Starting with immunology, where we recently began our Phase 2 Crohn’s disease platform study, which will evaluate Skyrizi in combination with several other novel biologics. This study will initially look at combinations of Skyrizi with our anti-IL-1α/β bispecific lutikizumab and our novel anti-α4β7 antibody ABBV-382. We are planning to include additional novel biologics in the future. Our approach in immunology has been to pursue therapies that are well differentiated and have the potential to elevate standard of care. We have clearly achieved this with Rinvoq and Skyrizi across multiple indications, including Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis. As we think about how the IBD market will evolve, we view dual mechanism approaches as having the greatest potential to achieve levels of efficacy that are above current standard of care. We are very excited about the potential for these combination therapies in IBD and we look forward to sharing updates as the data mature. In Oncology, we continue to make very good progress across all stages of our hem and solid tumor pipeline. In the area of solid tumors, we recently submitted our application to the FDA for accelerated approval of Teliso-V as a monotherapy in patients with previously treated c-Met overexpressing EGFR wild type non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer. Once approved, Teliso-V will become the first c-Met targeted ADC to enter non-small cell lung cancer, a segment with limited options and where patients tend to have a very poor prognosis, especially if their tumors express c-Met. We anticipate an approval decision in the first half of 2025. In the quarter, we also received a positive CHMP opinion recommending Elahere for the treatment of platinum resistant ovarian cancer in patients with high expression of FRα and treated with up to three prior therapies. This decision was based on the positive Phase 3 MIRASOL trial where Elahere demonstrated an overall survival benefit and significantly reduce the risk of cancer progression. We anticipate an approval decision in Europe in the fourth quarter. At the recent ESMO Congress we presented new Phase 1 data for ABBV-400 in advanced non-small cell lung cancer and gastroesophageal cancer. Early efficacy data from the lung cohort are promising with an objective response rate of 48% across all patients in the study and response rates ranging from 60% to 78% in patients with overexpressed c-Met. We are very pleased with the level of activity we’re seeing from our next generation c-Met ADC, which compares favorably to Teliso-V, where we’ve seen objective response rates ranging from 23% in medium c-Met expressors to 35% in patients with high c-Met expression. 400 has the potential to expand our c-Met portfolio into earlier lines of therapy and lower levels of c-Met expression in lung cancer. Similarly, in patients with advanced gastroesophageal cancer, 400 demonstrated promising activity with an objective response rate of 29% across all patients. This compares well against combination and single agent chemotherapy, which are the standards of care for patients in second line and third line of therapy respectively. Based on these encouraging preliminary data, we plan to begin Phase 2 studies for 400 in both non-small cell lung cancer and gastroesophageal cancer. Recall, we’ve also advanced 400 in late line colorectal cancer and we remain on-track to begin a Phase 3 study later this year. In the area of hematologic oncology, we received approval in Europe for Tepkinly as a monotherapy treatment for patients with relapsed refractory follicular lymphoma after two or more lines of therapy. Epcoritamab is now the only T-cell engaging bispecific approved in the U.S. and Europe to treat both follicular lymphoma and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Moving to neuroscience, we recently received FDA approval for Vyalev as the first subcutaneous 24 hour infusion of levodopa based therapy for the treatment of motor fluctuations in adults with advanced Parkinson’s disease. Our novel subcutaneous levodopa, carbidopa delivery offers meaningful benefits over current treatment options and others that are in development. Vyalev delivers significant improvements in on-time and off-time with a non-surgical 24 hour delivery system. It can deliver high levodopa doses similar to the amount provided by Duopa and it doesn’t require combination with oral drugs to achieve efficacy. We’re extremely excited to bring this transformative therapeutic option to patients in the U.S. We also recently announced positive topline results from the Phase 3 TEMPO-1 trial, which evaluated fixed doses of monotherapy tavapadon in early Parkinson’s disease. In the study, both doses of tavapadon met the primary endpoint demonstrating a significant reduction in the severity of Parkinson’s disease symptoms compared with placebo at week 26, as measured by decreases in the combined scores for Parts 2 and 3 of the Unified Parkinson’s Disease Rating Scale. Key secondary endpoints were also met in this study. We are very pleased with the emerging profile for tavapadon, which shows it is generally safe and well tolerated and it can drive strong efficacy as a monotherapy in early Parkinson’s and as an adjunctive treatment in patients with more advanced disease. Results from the two Phase 3 studies thus far look favorable compared to other dopamine agonists on the market. And, we believe tavapadon has the potential to become an important new treatment option as a monotherapy for Parkinson’s patients as well as an adjunct to oral levo/carbidopa. We expect to see results from TEMPO-2 later this year, which is our Phase 3 monotherapy study evaluating a flexible dose of tavapadon. Results from our long-term safety study, TEMPO-4 are expected next year. As Rob mentioned, we remain on track to share data from the two emraclidine pivotal studies in the fourth quarter. We also continue to invest in external innovation to strengthen our neuroscience pipeline. We recently announced two deals in this area, including an expanded collaboration with Gedeon Richter to develop novel targets for neuropsychiatric conditions and the acquisition of Aliada brings an anti-pyroglutamate Aβ antibody, which uses a unique blood brain barrier crossing and amyloid aggregate clearing technology. Aliada’s lead antibody has been able to achieve encouraging levels in cerebrospinal fluid with an extended half-life and the potential to be delivered subcutaneously. This molecule could become a best-in-class treatment for Alzheimer’s disease. Aliada’s novel technologies for enabling therapeutics to access the central nervous system also have the potential to be used with other programs across our neuroscience pipeline. In aesthetics, we recently received approval for Botox in the U.S. for moderate to severe platysma bands, marking the first global approval in this indication for any neurotoxin. There is currently a lack of non-surgical treatments available to improve the appearance of prominent platysma bands. And, we believe Botox will represent an important new treatment option for patients who are looking to reduce the appearance of vertical neck bands and improve jawline definition. In our novel toxin portfolio, we remain on-track to submit our regulatory application for BoNT/E around the end of this year. Our rapid onset short acting toxin has a highly differentiated clinical profile and once approved will offer patients a novel option compared to currently available neurotoxins. So in summary, this has been a very productive year thus far for our R&D organization and we are pleased with the progress we’ve made advancing our broad pipeline. With that, I’ll turn the call over to,

Reents: Thank you, Roopal. Starting with our third quarter results, we reported adjusted earnings per share of $3 which is $0.10 above our guidance midpoint. These results include a $0.04 unfavorable impact from acquired IPR&D expense. Total net revenues were nearly $14.5 billion reflecting robust growth of 4.9% on an operational basis, excluding a 1.1% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. Our ex-Humira growth platform, which covers more than 80% of AbbVie’s total sales, delivered reported growth of nearly 18%, once again exceeding our expectations. The adjusted operating margin ratio was 46.7% of sales. This includes adjusted gross margin of 84.4%, adjusted R&D expense of 14.2%, acquired IPR&D expense of 0.6% and adjusted SG&A expense of 23%. Net interest expense was $591 million. The adjusted tax rate was 16.2%. Turning to our financial outlook. We are raising the midpoint of our full-year adjusted earnings per share guidance by $0.15 and now expect adjusted earnings per share between $10.90 and $10.94. Please note that this guidance does not include an estimate for acquired IPR&D expense that may be incurred beyond the third quarter. We now expect total net revenues of approximately $56 billion, an increase of $500 million. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a 0.7% unfavorable impact on full-year sales growth. This revenue forecast includes the following updates to select key products and therapeutic areas. We now approximate Skyrizi global sales of $11.5 billion, an increase of $500 million due to continued strong performance across all approved indications. Rinvoq total revenue of $5.8 billion an increase of $100 million reflecting robust uptake in IBD. U.S. Humira total sales of $7.4 billion a decrease of $400 million reflecting more Humira molecule volume moving to other novel mechanisms, including Skyrizi and Rinvoq. Imbruvica totaled revenue of $3.3 billion an increase of $200 million reflecting higher persistency rates for existing patients. Venclexta total sales of $2.6 billion an increase of $100 million reflecting momentum in both U.S. and international markets. Aesthetics global revenue of $5.3 billion a decrease of $200 million almost entirely due to lower Juvederm volume which continues to be impacted by challenging economic conditions in key markets. Vraylar total sales of $3.3 billion a decrease of $100 million reflecting continued strong prescription demand partially offset by modestly unfavorable channel mix. And for Botox, we now expect global revenue in the therapeutic space of $3.3 billion an increase of $100 million reflecting robust demand across all indications. Moving to the P&L for 2024. We continue to forecast a full-year adjusted gross margin of approximately 84% of sales, adjusted R&D investment of 14%, adjusted SG&A expense of 23.5% as well as an adjusted operating margin ratio of roughly 44.5% of sales, which includes a 2.1% unfavorable impact from acquired IPR&D expense. Turning to the fourth quarter. We anticipate net revenues approaching $14.8 billion. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a neutral impact on sales growth. We expect adjusted earnings per share between $2.94 and $2.98. This guidance does not include acquired IPR&D expense that may be incurred in the quarter and excludes any potential impact from the recently announced acquisition of Aliada Therapeutics. Finally, AbbVie’s robust business performance continues to support our capital allocation priorities. Our cash balance at the end of September was nearly $7.3 billion and we generated more than $11 billion of free cash flow, which includes approximately $1.5 billion of Skyrizi royalty payments in the first nine-months of the year. This free cash flow fully supports a strong and growing quarterly dividend, which we are increasing 5.8% to $1.64 per share, beginning with the dividend payable in 2025, as well as debt repayment, where we remain on-track to pay down the roughly $7 billion of maturities this year and anticipate achieving a net leverage ratio of two times by the end of 2026. Our strong cash flow also provides capacity for additional business development. We have executed more than a dozen early stage deals so far this year, and we continue to assess external innovation across all of our key growth areas. In closing, AbbVie has once again delivered strong top and bottom line results. I’m very pleased with the momentum of our ex-Humira growth platform, including continued robust performance from Skyrizi and Rinvoq, which further supports AbbVie’s long-term outlook. With that, I’ll turn the call back over to

Shea: Thanks, Scott. We will now open the call for questions. We are aware of a peer earnings call that begins at 9 :00 A.M. Central, so we will do our best to wrap up our Q&A right around the top of the hour. So, in the interest of hearing from as many analysts as possible, please limit yourself to just one question.

Thakkar: Yes. It’s Roopal. We expanded further. We’ve had strong partnership. They’re a terrific organization. We have a follow on to Vraylar that’s more D3 meaning that will start entering the clinic quite soon in Phase II looking at bipolar depression and MDD as well as generalized anxiety disorder. As Rob described as part of our neuroscience strategy, psychiatry is a big part of that and having a deeper relationship with Gedeon Richter will allow us to have potentially even more assets in depression, in bipolar disorder, in schizophrenia and anxiety and potentially other adjacent indications that we continue to be interested in because the unmet need continues to be very high.

Michael: Thank you, Liz. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us. Our fourth quarter performance closes out another excellent year for AbbVie, and I'm very pleased with the significant progress we made in 2024. We executed on our top commercial priorities, advanced our pipeline with key regulatory approvals and promising data, and further strengthened our business through strategic transactions. Turning to our results, we delivered full-year adjusted earnings per share of $10.12, which is $0.49 above our initial guidance midpoint. Excluding the impact of IPR&D expense, total net revenues were $56.3 billion, exceeding our initial guidance by more than $2 billion. Our results demonstrate a rapid return to sales growth, with full-year revenue up 4.6% on an operational basis, despite $5 billion of U.S. Humira erosion in 2024. This outstanding execution is driven by our ex-Humira platform, which continues to outperform expectations, delivering full-year sales growth of more than 18% with revenue growth accelerating to 22% in the fourth quarter. As I look to 2025 and beyond, we are well-positioned with our ex-Humira platform. It will allow AbbVie to deliver robust mid-single-digit revenue growth in 2025 and exceed our previous peak revenue in just the second year following the U.S. Humira LOE. And given that we have no significant LOE events for the rest of this decade, we have a clear runway to growth for at least the next eight years, including a high single-digit revenue CAGR through 2029. We anticipate a substantial portion of this growth will be driven by robust performance from Skyrizi and Rinvoq to assets are expected to collectively generate nearly $24 billion of revenue in 2025, reflecting growth of more than $6 billion. Based on this strong momentum, we now expect Skyrizi and Rinvoq to exceed more than $31 billion of combined sales in 2027, which is $4 billion above the guidance we provided last year. We are seeing strong performance across all of their approved indications, especially in IBD. And we see several tailwinds that will support growth into the next decade, including healthy immunology market growth, strong share capture given best-in-class profiles, continued robust market access, and momentum from new indications, such as the recent launch of Skyrizi in UC, as well as the potential for five new indications for Rinvoq over the next few years. In neuroscience, our second largest therapeutic area, we are seeing very robust performance, with sales of $10 billion expected in 2025, reflecting growth of $1 billion across psychiatry, migraine, and Parkinson's. In oncology, I am very encouraged by our long-term growth prospects. This includes our BCL-2 inhibitor, Venclexta; our FRα ADC for ovarian cancer, Elahere; our two novel c-MET ADCs for solid tumors, Teliso-V and 400, and our BCMA-CD3 bispecific for multiple myeloma 383. Lastly, while the recent performance in aesthetics has been impacted by challenging market conditions in the U.S. and China, the category remains very attractive given low penetration rates for facial injectables. When the market returns to more normalized growth, our leading commercial portfolio and forthcoming pipeline will help drive improved performance. Based on the market trends over the last few years, and our assumption for a gradual recovery in the near term, we now expect aesthetics to deliver a high single-digit revenue CAGR through 2029. Turning now to R&D, we have made excellent progress with our late-stage programs. These advancements include recent approvals for Skyrizi in UC, Epkinly in later lines of follicular lymphoma, Elahere for FRα-positive platinum-resistant ovarian cancer, Vyalev for advanced Parkinson's, and new indications for Botox and Juvéderm. In 2025, we anticipate approvals for Rinvoq in GCA, and Teliso-V for non-squamous, non-small cell lung cancer, as well as regulatory submissions for Tavapadon in Parkinson's, Venclexta in higher-risk MDS, and BoNT/E for aesthetics. We have also added depth to our pipeline by signing more than 20 early-stage deals since the beginning of 2024, including promising technologies and innovative mechanisms that can elevate the standard of care in immunology, oncology, and neuroscience. We have significant capacity to continue pursuing external innovation with a focus on differentiated opportunities that can drive growth in the next decade. In summary, I am very pleased with AbbVie's execution in 2024. And expect our diverse portfolio to drive strong growth in 2025 and beyond. With that, I'll turn the call over to Jeff for additional comments on our commercial highlights. Jeff?

Stewart: Thank you, Rob. I'll start with the quarterly results for immunology, which delivered total revenues of approximately $7.3 billion, exceeding our expectations. Skyrizi total sales were nearly $3.8 billion, reflecting operational growth of 57.9%. Rinvoq total sales were more than $1.8 billion, reflecting operational growth of 47.1%. On a full-year basis, Skyrizi and Rinvoq delivered approximately $17.7 billion in total combined revenue, an impressive increase of nearly $6 billion year-over-year, exceeding our expectations. These results reflect strong performance across all approved indications. I'll share some highlights in the U.S. Skyrizi total prescription share in the biologic psoriasis market is now approximately 40%, reflecting a very significant lead relative to all major competitors, with in-play capture rates remaining very strong. Over the course of 2025, we anticipate new data for Skyrizi on hard-to-treat areas of the body, including scalp and genital psoriasis. In addition, we expect the readout of our fifth head-to-head study in psoriasis comparing Skyrizi to Sotyktu, which will continue to differentiate the brand versus oral competitors. Rinvoq is now capturing more than 20% in-place share in atopic dermatitis, as our communication around our level-up study versus Dupixen continues to ramp. Recall that in level-up, we showed strong comparative results on stringent endpoints of skin resolution and itch reduction. In RA, Rinvoq is achieving the leading in-place share in the second line plus market, consistent with the brand's label. We see that U.S. physicians are increasingly utilizing only one TNF prior to initiating Rinvoq treatment in RA. In psoriatic arthritis, Skyrizi and Rinvoq together are capturing a leading in-place share in the room category, highlighting the effective co-positioning of both agents in this important segment. Across IBD, Skyrizi and Rinvoq are also capturing substantial portfolio share, given their respective efficacy, safety, and dosing profiles. In Crohn's disease, which is roughly two-thirds of the overall IBD market, these two treatments together are capturing approximately half of the in-place share with total prescription volumes ramping very rapidly. In ulcerative colitis, we are seeing a very strong inflection following the Skyrizi launch in the second-half of last year. Both Skyrizi and Rinvoq together are already capturing roughly a third of the UC in-play market, which supports robust momentum going forward for both AbbVie brands. We see similar performance internationally as well, where Skyrizi and Rinvoq are also achieving leadership positions across our major countries. So, I'm very pleased with this momentum and continue to see a significant opportunity for share gains across our existing indications, in addition to the typical market growth we see across room, derm, and gastro in 2025 and beyond. Turning now to Humira, which delivered global sales of more than $1.6 billion, down 48.7% on an operational basis, primarily due to biosimilar competition, we continue to see molecule compression in the U.S. with volume moving to other novel mechanisms, which has resulted in a benefit to both Skyrizi and Rinvoq. We anticipate Humira access will decrease throughout 2025 as more plans move to exclusive biosimilar contracts. It's reasonable to assume that roughly half of U.S. covered lives will continue to have parity access to Humira on a full-year basis, with select exclusionary contracts for existing patients expected to begin around the middle of the year. Moving now to oncology, where total revenues were approximately $1.7 billion. Imbruvica global revenues were $848 million, down 6.2%, reflecting continued competitive dynamics in CLL. Venclexta global sales were $655 million, up 13% on an operational basis, reflecting strong demand for both CLL and AML across our key countries. Lastly, Elahere continues to demonstrate a strong launch trajectory for FR-alpha positive platinum-resistant ovarian cancer, with global sales of $148 million. Sales in the U.S. are annualizing at more than $600 million and commercialization is now underway in key international markets where we are accelerating regulatory and reimbursement timelines. Moving to neuroscience, where total full-year revenues were $9 billion, reflecting impressive absolute sales growth of nearly $1.3 billion. In the quarter, total revenues were $2.5 billion, up 19.9% on an operational basis. This robust performance is driven by continued double-digit growth of Vraylar with global sales of $924 million, Botox Therapeutic with global revenues of $873 million, Ubrelvy with global sales of $303 million, and Qulipta with global revenues of $201 million. Beyond these leading therapies for psychiatry and migraine, we are very excited for an emerging portfolio in Parkinson's disease. We recently launched Vyalev, the only subcutaneous 24-hour continuous infusion of levodopa-based therapy for the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease. As a less invasive, non-surgical delivery system that can provide meaningful improvements in on-time and off-time, we are seeing very high interest from both physicians and patient communities. Parkinson's experts report significant benefit from the continuous 24-hour delivery and the control of symptoms morning, day, and through the night. While sales in the U.S. are expected to ramp gradually over the next several quarters as we work to establish the appropriate Medicare coverage and benefit determination, uptake internationally is exceeding our expectations. Finally, I'm very encouraged by the data we are seeing for tavapadon for potential use as a monotherapy for early Parkinson's disease, as well as an adjunct to optimize oral therapy for more advanced patients. Tavapadon represents a very complimentary addition to our Parkinson's disease portfolio with Vyalev and Duopa. So, overall, I'm extremely pleased with the commercial execution across our therapeutic portfolio, which is demonstrating very strong momentum as we head into 2025. With that, I'll turn the call over to Carrie for additional comments on aesthetics. Carrie?

Strom: Thank you, Jeff. Fourth quarter global aesthetic sales were approximately $1.3 billion, reflecting an operational decrease of 4.4%. In the U.S., aesthetic sales of $839 million declined 5% as challenging market conditions and promotional dynamics impacted key assets. Consistent with recent quarters, the U.S. facial injectable market continues to be affected by suppressed consumer spending that is related to the cumulative impact of high inflation over several years. As a higher price procedure relative to toxins, current conditions are most notably impacting the filler market, which declined by approximately 10% in the quarter. The toxin market remains more resilient, demonstrating low single-digit% growth. Although we continue to be the clear market leader in toxins and fillers, in Q4, our facial injectable share declined by a few points. In October, we launched an updated version of our Alle consumer loyalty program, which was designed to benefit providers by increasing treatment frequency, patient retention, and cross-selling. While some providers embraced the new loyalty program, many felt the new contract was too complex to integrate into their practices, therefore negatively impacting market share and inventory levels. Based on this market reaction, we reinstated our original Alle consumer loyalty program earlier this month. This action has been met with a rapid and favorable response from our providers with encouraging early indicators for sales and market share recovery. Internationally, aesthetic sales were $459 million. This represented an operational decline of 3.2% that was primarily due to lower Juvéderm sales as Botox cosmetic sales were roughly flat on an operational basis. Our international results were impacted by our second largest global market, China, where lower consumer spending related to economic headwinds continues to affect performance. Looking to 2025, we've planned prudently with our outlook for modest aesthetic sales growth. In the U.S., this reflects a gradual improvement in market growth rates and share for both toxins and fillers. Additionally, based on our Alle loyalty program changes, we expect a one-time price adjustment to negatively impact our first quarter U.S. results. Internationally, we are focused on retaining a strong competitive position as we launch multiple new products in China while we closely monitor market conditions and consumer sentiment. In summary, while economic headwinds and key geographies have created a near-term impact on market conditions, we continue to see significant long-term growth potential, given high consumer interest and low penetration rate. Allergan Aesthetics is uniquely positioned to benefit based on our customer relationships, commercial investments, and innovative pipeline.

Thakkar: Thank you, Carrie. We continue to make significant progress with our R&D efforts to advance novel clinical programs across all stages of our diversified pipeline. In 2025, we expect a strong cadence of important data readouts, regulatory submissions, and new approvals, as well as many clinical trial starts for key programs. Starting with immunology, regulatory applications are under review for Rinvoq and GCA, with approval decisions anticipated in the second quarter. Data for two Phase 3 Rinvoq programs will be available this year, alopecia areata and vitiligo, and for our HS and lupus programs in 2026. Moving to Skyrizi, data from the head-to-head in psoriasis versus Sotyktu will be available this year. Also this year, to further support differentiation in IBD, a study comparing Skyrizi to Entyvio in ulcerative colitis will be initiated. Additional mid-stage monotherapy and combination studies are planned in 2025, including a Phase 2 study evaluating lutikizumab in atopic dermatitis, a Phase 2 study evaluating Skyrizi and lutikizumab in psoriatic arthritis, and advancement of our anti-TREM1 antibody, ABBV-8736 with the eventual goal to add it to the Crohn's Disease Platform Study as a monotherapy and in combination with Skyrizi. Moving to oncology, where multiple regulatory and clinical milestones as well as phase transitions for key programs are planned. One area that we are particularly excited about is our ADC pipeline, where several assets are aimed at multiple tumor types. Our regulatory application is under review for accelerated approval of Teliso-V as a monotherapy in patients with previously treated c-Met overexpressing EGFR wild type non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer. The target for an approval decision is in the first-half of this year. This represents a segment of lung cancer with high unmet need where patients have limited options and tend to have a very poor prognosis. If approved, Teliso-V would be the first c-Met-directed ADC for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. We are also rapidly advancing our next-gen c-Met asset. A Phase 3 study evaluating ABBV-400, also known as Temab-A, was recently initiated in patients with c-Met overexpressed refractory metastatic colorectal cancer. Temab-A, as a monotherapy, is being compared against chemotherapy plus bevacizumab. This year, data from a Phase 1 CRC study evaluating Temab-A in combination with bevacizumab could enable a Phase 3 study in an all-comers population. Temab-A is also progressing well across lung programs. A Phase 2 study in EGFR wild-type non-small cell lung cancer is being planned, where Temab-A will be evaluated with a PD-1 inhibitor as a frontline combination therapy. In the EGFR mutant segment, results from the ongoing Phase 1 study could enable Temab-A dose optimization studies as a monotherapy in the second line setting and in combination with osimertinib in the first line setting. In gastroesophageal cancer, a Phase 2 trial was recently started evaluating Temab-A in combination with chemotherapy and a PD-1 inhibitor in frontline patients. We are also excited about ABBV-706, an ADC that utilizes the same Topo warhead and linker technology as Temab-A, but with an antibody that targets SEZ6. Encouraging data in small lung cancer, small cell lung cancer, were presented at ASCO last year. And this year, dose optimization and longer term duration data will be available. This readout could lead to the initiation of a registrational study in second line and dose optimization in combination with standard of care in the frontline. Moving to FRα ADC, Elahere is now approved for platinum resistant ovarian cancer in the U.S. and Europe and is currently in Phase 3 development for the platinum sensitive ovarian cancer segment, also, a next generation ADC targeting FRα, IMGN-151 is currently in Phase 1. This year, Elahere will be tested in combination with bevacizumab and a PARP inhibitor. 151 is being advanced into dose optimization as well as in studies with standard of care agents such as bevacizumab, carboplatin and a PARP inhibitor. These mid-stage studies for Elahere and 151 will be used to inform our Phase 3 approach in various settings for ovarian cancer, including induction and maintenance in platinum sensitive patients and in combination for frontline maintenance. Another ADC from ImmunoGen known as PIVAC targets a rare hematologic malignancy called Blastic Plasmacytoid Dendritic Cell Neoplasm. Based on positive data from the pivotal Phase 2 study, a regulatory application is planned for later this year. If approved, this would be an important new treatment option for patients with this aggressive blood cancer. Also in the area of hematologic oncology, the Phase 3 Venclexta MDS study is nearing completion with an overall survival data readout later this year. Now moving to neuroscience, following the Emraclidine EMPOWER-1 and 2 study readouts, a thorough analysis of the data was conducted to better understand the placebo effect observed in the two trials. Our findings point to a lack of uniformity of placebo effect across sites. When assessing sites beyond those with high placebo response, a clear efficacy signal was observed, albeit more modest than reported in Phase 1b. Therefore, we see a path forward as an adjunct to atypicals and schizophrenia and as a monotherapy in psychosis related to Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. These are diseases where there is a high unmet need for safe and tolerable treatments that can provide even a modest benefit. Additionally, our intention is to explore higher doses of Emraclidine. This is based on the degree of variability observed in the PK data from the EMPOWER studies. If higher doses are found to be safe and well tolerated, there is a potential opportunity to evaluate Emraclidine as a monotherapy in schizophrenia, as higher doses may result in greater efficacy. A multiple ascending dose study will be conducted this year and data will be available in the early part of 2026. Following this dosing work, Phase 2 studies in adjunctive schizophrenia and potentially monotherapy schizophrenia will be initiated. Dose ranging in elderly patients is ongoing with Phase 2 studies planned in 2026 in patients with psychosis related to Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Disease. Staying on the topic of Parkinson's Disease, positive top line results from the third Phase 3 trial for Tavapadon were recently announced. In the TEMPO-2 trial, Tavapadon met the primary endpoint, demonstrating a significant reduction in the severity of Parkinson's Disease symptoms compared with placebo at week 26. Key secondary endpoints were also achieved. We are very pleased with the emerging profile for Tavapadon, which shows strong efficacy as a monotherapy and as an add-on to Levo, Carbidopa. The six-month data from the Phase 3 studies show Tavapadon to be generally safe and well tolerated with low rates of adverse events of special interest, such as sedation and impulse control disorder. Longer term safety data will be available this year and regulatory submissions will then follow. Moving to aesthetics, we met with the FDA late last year regarding our BoNT/E submission for the treatment of glabellar lines. We are in the process of generating additional CMC data requested by the agency, which should be completed in the next few months. The regulatory submission will likely occur around the middle of the year. To summarize, there have been significant advancements across all stages of our pipeline. In 2025, we anticipate numerous important regulatory and clinical milestones, including many trial starts for key programs.

Reents: Thank you, Roopal. Starting with our fourth quarter results, we reported adjusted earnings per share of $2.16 which is $0.08 above our guidance midpoint. These results include an $0.88 unfavorable impact from acquired IPR&D expense. Total net revenues were $15.1 billion reflecting robust growth of 6.1% on an operational basis, excluding a 0.5% unfavorable impact from foreign exchange. Our ex-Humira platform delivered reported growth of 22%, once again exceeding our expectations. Adjusted gross margin was 83.8% of sales, adjusted R&D expense was 15.1% of sales and adjusted SG&A expense was 23.6% of sales. The adjusted operating margin ratio was 34.7% of sales, which includes a 10.4% unfavorable impact from acquired IPR&D expense. Net interest expense was $610 million. The adjusted tax rate was 20.2%. Turning to our financial outlook for 2025, our full-year adjusted earnings per share guidance is between $12.12 and $12.32. Please note that this guidance does not include an estimate for acquired IPR&D expense that may be incurred throughout the year. We expect total net revenues of approximately $59 billion reflecting robust operational growth of 5.7% despite a roughly 4% net unfavorable impact across our portfolio from the Medicare Part D benefit redesign. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a 1% unfavorable impact on full-year sales growth. This revenue forecast contemplates the following approximate assumptions for select key products and therapeutic areas. We expect global immunology sales of $29.4 billion, including Skyrizi revenue of $15.9 billion reflecting growth of more than $4.1 billion driven by continued strong performance in psoriasis as well as robust uptake in IBD; Rinvoq sales of $7.9 billion reflecting growth of nearly $2 billion with continued market growth and share momentum across all approved indications. And Humira total revenue of $5.6 billion, including U.S. sales of $4 billion as more plans exclude branded Humira around the middle of the year. This forecast includes a $600 million net unfavorable impact from the Medicare Part D benefit redesign. In oncology, we expect global sales of $6.3 billion including IMBRUVICA revenue of $2.7 billion which reflects a $400 million net unfavorable impact from the Medicare Part D benefit redesign; Venclexta sales of $2.6 billion, reflecting continued strong demand, partially offset by a $100 million net unfavorable impact from Medicare Part D benefit redesign and Elahere revenue of $750 million. For Aesthetics, we expect global sales of $5.3 billion reflecting gradual improvement in market conditions across global markets as well as market share recovery in the U.S. This includes Botox Cosmetic revenue of $2.8 billion and relatively flat sales for Juvéderm. For neuroscience, we expect global sales of $10 billion reflecting continued double-digit growth. This includes Vraylar revenue of $3.5 billion reflecting continued strong prescription demand, partially offset by a $200 million net unfavorable impact from the Medicare Part D benefit redesign; Botox Therapeutics sales of $3.5 billion, total oral CGRP revenue of $2.1 billion and Vraylar sales of $300 million. For eye care, we expect global sales of $2.2 billion. Moving to the P&L for 2025, we are forecasting full-year adjusted gross margin of approximately 84% of sales, adjusted R&D investment of approximately 14.5%, adjusted SG&A expense of approximately $13.2 billion and an adjusted operating margin ratio of roughly 47% of sales. We expect adjusted net interest expense of approximately $2.6 billion which primarily reflects the annualized financing cost for the ImmunoGen and Cerevel transactions. We forecast our non-GAAP tax rate to be approximately 15.6%. Finally, we expect our share count to be roughly flat to 2024. Turning to the first quarter, we anticipate net revenues of approximately $12.8 billion. At current rates, we expect foreign exchange to have a 1.6% unfavorable impact on sales growth. This revenue forecast comprehends the following approximate assumptions for our key therapeutic areas. Immunology sales of $6.1 billion including Skyrizi sales of $3.2 billion and Rinvoq revenue of $1.6 billion, we expect U.S. Humira sales of $900 million. We also anticipate oncology revenue of $1.5 billion, aesthetic sales of $1.1 billion which includes an unfavorable one-time price adjustment due to the reimplementation of the original program, neuroscience revenue of $2.1 billion and eye care sales of $550 million. We are forecasting an operating margin ratio of roughly 44.5% of sales and model a non-GAAP tax rate of approximately 13.8%. We expect adjusted earnings per share between $2.47 and $2.51. This guidance does not include acquired IPR&D expense that may be incurred in the quarter. Finally, AbbVie's robust business performance continues to support our capital allocation priorities. Our cash balance at the end of December was approximately $5.5 billion and we expect to generate free cash flow approaching $17 billion in 2025, which includes roughly $2.7 billion of Skyrizi royalty payments. This free cash flow will support a strong and growing quarterly dividend, which we have increased by 310% since inception, as well as debt repayment, where we expect to pay down nearly $3 billion of total debt this year and remain on track to achieve a net leverage ratio of 2x by the end of 2026. Our strong cash flow also provides capacity for continued business development to further augment our portfolio. In closing, we are pleased with AbbVie's results in 2024 and our financial outlook remains very strong. We have considerable momentum across our diverse portfolio and we continue to be well positioned to deliver robust growth in 2025 and beyond.

Shea: Thanks, Scott. We will now open the call for questions. In the interest of hearing from as many analysts as possible over the remainder of the call, we ask you please limit your questions to one or two.

Michael: And if we speak to it in terms of the $4 billion, just to give you a sense then, to add to what just Scott mentioned. So, Skyrizi is up $3 billion. A billion of that is psoriatic and $2 billion is IBD. We're just seeing tremendous ramps early days with IBD. And then, for Rinvoq, it's up a billion from the previous guidance. And that's a mix of roughly $300 million rheum, $200 million derm, and $500 million IBD. So, again, across the board, we're seeing tremendous performance, particularly in IBD. And then, your question on how to think about the growth, we have obviously given guidance beyond '27. But as I look at the sell side consensus, clearly the growth that's in sell side consensus beyond '27 is below our expectations. We would expect to see these markets continue to grow. We would also expect to see continued share gains, albeit as you start getting close to that in place share level, the share curve bends, but you still expect to see some level of share growth. And then, keep in mind, we will have the five, we expect the five new indications for Rinvoq, collectively adding about $2 billion in peak sales and so that will also contribute. So, as I think about the rate of growth for Skyrizi and Rinvoq beyond '27, Rinvoq will likely grow faster than Skyrizi because of those new indications, but you'll still see a robust performance from both assets, at least through '32.

Michael: Geoff, on your first question regarding -- this is Rob. On your first question regarding Cerevel, so keep in mind, the accounting rules do not allow you to write up an intangible. So, even though we are more optimistic about Tavapadon now than we were at the time of the deal, we can't write that value up. So, that would be the same as what we originally ascribed. We still obviously, as Roopal walked you through the development programs for Emraclidine, still see opportunity in adjunctive schizophrenia as well as neuro degenerative psychosis. And we haven't completely given up on the monotherapy opportunity either, but that's a more heavily risk adjusted opportunity now. So, when you think about the value you have to take into account, the timing, so there's some level of time delay as well as a different probability of success for monotherapy. That's all baked into because you're essentially valuing risk adjusted revenues. You have to take that into account. That said, we're still optimistic about the asset. We're pursuing it in these indications. And again, as I mentioned, we haven't completely given up on monotherapy that will depend on dose ranging. But that is the way we constructed the revaluation of the intangible. But overall, we still see a very nice opportunity particularly for

Stewart: Geoff, I'll take your question regarding the aesthetics trough. So, we've not specifically guided that, but the way that we have modeled it and think about it is we do see recovery. And I think the big headwind here has been over the last two years has been the economic condition. So, we do see continued improvement. Carrie spoke about some of the market growth rates that we're seeing coming back in the U.S. for both fillers and toxins. So, we would -- if you model, you would anticipate '25 to be the trough. And then, our long-term guidance is that high-single-digit compound annual growth using '25 as the base year through '29. And if you model that, that's going to put you somewhere north of $7 billion. Certainly, this is a business we continue to be excited about. We think that there are continuing to be low market penetration rates globally, frankly, and we've got some innovation to continue to drive market growth. That market has grown low-double-digits historically, but I think as we model, we're thinking a high-single-digit growth in the markets. But we do see some growth accelerators with